The Commission has considered the present matter on the basis of an information received from PRIMORDIAL Systems Pvt.	Fact
Limited (hereinafter referred to as the Informant) on 19.08.2011 under Section 19 (1) (a) of the Competition Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Fact
The matter relates to alleged abuse of dominant position by Indian Newspaper Society-INS (hereinafter referred to as Opposite Party No. 1), Sh.	Fact
Raman K. Chugh (hereinafter referred to as Opposite Party Number 2) and Hype Hike Advertising Inc. (hereinafter referred to as Opposite Party Number 3) in the provision of advertisement services in print media in India.	Fact
The brief facts and allegations as per information in the case are as under: 2.1.	Fact
As per the information, the informant is a company incorporated under the provisions of Companies Act, 1956 and is engaged in the provision of skill based education services to the young people in India through its own educational institution India Institute of Learning Advanced Development (hereinafter referred to as INLEAD) and by entering into strategic alliance with other organisations in India like India Tourism Development Corporation Ltd., Sri Ram College of Commerce, Delhi University etc.	Fact
The Opposite Party Number 1 is a registered society of print media newspaper publishers in India and is primarily engaged in giving accreditation to different advertising agencies for publication of advertisement of their clients in various print media who are its members.	Fact
Besides, it is also responsible for maintenance of financial discipline and safety of the business interest of its members.	Fact
The Opposite Party Number 3 is an accredited advertisement agency of Opposite Party Number 1 having its office at Gurgaon, Haryana and is engaged in the provision of advertisement services including the responsibility of booking space in various print media to its clients as per their requirements.	Fact
The Opposite Party Number 2 is proprietor of Opposite Party Number 3 and is working as an advertising agent.	Fact
It has been submitted by the informant that as it is in the business of provision of skill enhancement education programmes, publicity plays an important role in its business operation and development for which it has to depend on different print and other media for advertisements of its programmes.	Fact
As per the information, in October, 2010, the Opposite Party Number 2 approached the informant to work as its agent for media publications advertisement and assured that his advertisement agency shall provide end-to-end advertising marketing collateral design and layout services to the informant and advertise the contents in different print media at the best negotiated rates.	Fact
Further, the Opposite Party Number 2 assured the informant to provide a 10 week payment credit cycle from the date of publication of an advertisement to the payment due date.	Fact
The Informant agreed with the said assurance and terms and conditions and appointed the Opposite Party Number 2 along with agency as the Agency on Record for its media publication with effect from 05.10.2010.	Fact
On the basis of the agreed terms and conditions, the Opposite Party Number 2 carried out the assignments of the informant smoothly for about nine months.	Fact
Thereafter, citing the reason of internal financial problems, the Opposite Party Number 2 declined to adhere to the promise made by him with regard to the price for advertisement design layout services and 10 week credit cycle for payment.	Fact
On several occasions, informally, the informant tried to resolve this issue with the Opposite Parties but it could not succeed as the Opposite Party No. 2 on every occasion asked for more time to establish his agencys delivery capabilities.	Fact
The informant has alleged that while on the one hand the Opposite Party No. 2 continued to neglect the provision of advertisement agency services, on the other hand he demanded more money over and above his initial commitments from the informant.	ArgumentPetitioner
The informant appointed another agency for the advertisement services on 14.06.2011 because of the undue demand of money and negligence in the provision of advertisement agency services by the Opposite Party Number 2.	Fact
However, the informant assured the Opposite Party Number 2 to release its balance advertisements.	Fact
The informant has further submitted that as of 14.06.2011, there has been no payment of the Opposite Party Number 2 due on it for the completed credit cycles.	ArgumentPetitioner
For the payments due in the subsequent credit cycles, the Opposite Party Number 2 has to submit all account details along with documented advertisement release clippings and details of unpublished release orders to the informant.	ArgumentPetitioner
In response, the Opposite Party Number 2 through an e-mail on 16.06.2011 threatened the informant to withdraw from its on-going ad- campaign and claimed pending payments of Rs 24, 22, 524 (Rupees Twenty Four Lac Twenty Two Thousand Five Hundred Twenty Four) for its advertisement agency services without providing the proofs of advertisements and invoices from the newspapers media and also demanded an additional amount of Rs. 16, 00, 612 (Rupees Sixteen Lac Six Hundred Twelve) for the services that has never been rendered to the informant.	Fact
The informant has alleged that the Opposite Party Number 2 without any just cause and without any payment being legally due on it has declined to release its pending advertisements which have already been booked under subsidized package deals with the media publications.	ArgumentPetitioner
The Opposite Party No. 2 continues to claim payments for the very same advertisements.	ArgumentPetitioner
The informant has alleged that the aforesaid behaviour of the Opposite Parties amounts to the denial of services without any just cause which is anti-competitive as per section 4 (2) (c) of the Act.	ArgumentPetitioner
The informant has also alleged that because of Opposite Party Number 2, its media campaign in the peak admission season for July 2011 batch admission was completely affected and its business suffered a lot which is irreparable.	ArgumentPetitioner
It has also been submitted that because of the said acts, there was a revenue loss of an amount of Rs. 48, 03,326 to the informant.	ArgumentPetitioner
The informant has further submitted that the Opposite Party Number 2 had assured the informant to advertise publish its advertisement content in special education supplements in the newspapers, but in effect he was getting them published in irrelevant sections of the newspapers media.	ArgumentPetitioner
It has been alleged that the Opposite Party Number 2 has visited the office of the informant on several occasions to meet its senior officials and tried to offer them bribes in terms of cuts and commissions with the intention to make the informant agree to its unjust and unfair payment demands and to make the informant continue to overlook the shortfalls in its service delivery.	ArgumentPetitioner
The Opposite Party No, 2 has unfairly tried to retain the business of the informant as it was one of the largest client of the Opposite Party Number 2 and provided a turnover of nearly 40 -50 of its entire business.	ArgumentPetitioner
It has also been alleged that Opposite Party Number 2 is threatening to malign the reputation of the informant in the market and blacklist it as an advertiser in the print media.	ArgumentPetitioner
The Opposite Party Number 2 has sent an e-mail to all the multiple media publications accusing the informant for non-payment of its dues and requested them not to publish the advertisement of the informant.	ArgumentPetitioner
It has also filed a complaint with Opposite Party Number 1 requesting it to issue an advisory to all the media publications not to carry out the advertisements of the informant.	ArgumentPetitioner
According to the informant, instead of resolving the dispute between the informant and the Opposite Party Number 2, the Opposite Party Number 1 wrote a letter to the informant asking it to pay the pending dues of Rs. 37 Lac (Rupees Thirty Seven Lakh) to Opposite Party Number 2.	ArgumentPetitioner
The informant approached the Opposite Party Number 1 and explained that the claims of the Opposite Party Number 2 are false and the matter is sub-judice before the High Court of Delhi.	ArgumentPetitioner
But, instead of listening to the submissions of the informant, the Opposite Party Number 1 has threatened the informant to issue an advisory to its members advising them to not to publish its advertisements in future.	ArgumentPetitioner
Further, Opposite Party Number 1 has been constantly pressurizing the informant to surrender to the illegal and undue demands of the Opposite Party Number 2.	ArgumentPetitioner
The informant has alleged that because of its dominant position in the market of advertisement services, Opposite party Number 1 is compelling it to pay the illegal and undue demands of the Opposite Party Number 2, which amounts to abuse of dominant position as per the provisions of Section 4 (1) and 4 (2) (b) (i) of the Act.	ArgumentPetitioner
The Commission considered the matter in its meetings held on 01.09.2011, 08.09.2011, 13.09.2011 and 28.09.2011.	Fact
Mr. Sumit Sharma, Advocate appeared on behalf of the informant on 28.09.2011 and made a request to withdraw the information filed before the Commission.	Fact
The Commission has examined the allegations of the informant in light of the provisions of the Act and evidences available on record.	Fact
The Commission observes that any issues relating to competition ought to be looked into with reference to the relevant market, which happens to be the provision of advertisement services in print media in India in the instant case.	RatioOfTheDecision
On careful examination of the whole matter, the Commission further observes that the basic allegations in the matter is that being in a dominant position in the market of provision of advertisement services in print media, the Opposite Party Number 1 has abused its dominant position by compelling the informant to pay the illegal and undue demands of the Opposite Party Number 2, which according to the informant is anti- competitive as per Section 4 (2) (b) (i) of the Act.	RatioOfTheDecision
Further, by declining to release the pending advertisements and by demanding undue amounts from the informant, the Opposite Party Number 2 has abused its dominant position in violation of Section 4 (2) (c) of the Act.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Commission notes that the informant is a client of Opposite Party Number 2.	RatioOfTheDecision
There is allegation in the information to the effect that the informant has been threatened of denial to publish its advertisements because of some alleged pending dues.	RatioOfTheDecision
However, the Commission feels that this in itself, in any manner, cannot be said to be denial of market access or limiting the provision of advertisement services in India.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Commission also notes that the allegations in the information pertain to dispute between the two parties and has no bearing on the issues concerning competition in the relevant market in India.	RatioOfTheDecision
Thus, prima facie, there appears to be no case of violation of any of the provisions of Section 4 of the Act in the matter.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Commission further observes that prima-facie the case also does not involve any anti-competitive agreement which may be considered to be violative of the provisions of Section 3(3) and Section 3(4) of the Act.	RatioOfTheDecision
The informant has also not alleged any violation of Section 3 of the Act by the Opposite Parties in the matter.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Commission, in view of the above discussion, holds that there is no prima facie case made out for making a reference to the Director General (DG) for conducting investigation into this matter under Section 26 (1) of the Act.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Commission notes that the advocate of the informant has also sought to withdraw the information filed before the Commission.	RatioOfTheDecision
In light of foregoing, the Commission deems it fit to close the matter relating to this information under Section 26(2) of the Act.	RulingByPresentCourt
The Secretary is directed to communicate the decision of the Commission to the informant accordingly.	RulingByPresentCourt
