Order under Section 26(1) of the Competition Act, 2002 The information in the present case was filed by M section Western Coalfield Limited (hereinafter, the Informant) under section 19(1)(a) of the Competition Act, 2002 (hereinafter, the Act) against SSV Coal Carriers Pvt.	Fact
Limited (hereinafter, the Opposite Party Number 1/OP 1), M section Bimal Kumar Khandelwal (hereinafter, the Opposite Party Number 2/OP 2), M section Pravin Transport (hereinafter, the Opposite Party Number 3/OP 3), M section Khandelwal Transport (hereinafter, the Opposite Party Number 4/OP 4), M section Khandelwal Earth Movers (hereinafter, the Opposite Party Number 5/OP 5), M section Khanduja Coal Transport Company (hereinafter, the Opposite Party Number 6/OP 6), M section Punya Coal Road Lines (hereinafter, the Opposite Party Number 7/OP 7), M section B. Himmatlal Agrawal (hereinafter, the Opposite Party Number 8/OP 8), M section Punjab Transport Company (hereinafter, the Opposite Party Number 9/OP 9) and Avaneesh Logistics Pvt.	Fact
Limited (hereinafter, the Opposite Party Number 10/OP 10), collectively referred to as the Opposite Parties, alleging contravention of the provisions of sections 3 of the Act.	Fact
Briefly, the Informant is one of the eight subsidiary companies of Coal India Limited which is under the administrative control of Ministry of Coal.	Fact
It is stated to have been conferred Miniratna status on 15.03.2007 and has mining operations which are spread over the States of Maharashtra (Nagpur, Chandrapur and Yeotmal districts) and Madhya Pradesh (Betul and Chhindawara districts).	Fact
The Informant claims to be a major supplier of coal to industries located in the States of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala.	Fact
A large number of power houses under Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh - Electricity Boards are major consumers of its coal along with cement, steel, chemical, fertilizers, paper and brick industries.	Fact
The Opposite Parties are stated to be engaged in the business of providing ancillary services in colliery areas including sand and coal transportation in the area of operation of the Informant.	Fact
It is stated that the Informant had issued a Tender Notice Number 34/2013-14 (Tender Notice I) for transportation of sand at Mahakali Colliery of Chandrapur area by hiring equipments whereby bids were invited from experienced and reputed contractors with experience of executing work of similar nature.	Fact
It was further stated that the bid for the tender was called in two parts.	Fact
Part I was for general eligibility criteria comprising of bid security earnest money deposit, qualification information, etc.	Fact
Part II was for price bids and were to be opened only for bidders who qualify and are found eligible after the scrutiny of their respective Part I bid documents.	Fact
The Informant has submitted that as per the conditions laid down in the tender notice and as a necessary part of Part I bid documents, all the bidders were required to sign pre-contract integrity pact wherein they agree not to indulge in any kind of unfair, illegal or corrupt practices at any stage of the bidding process (pre post contract stages) in order to secure the contract or in furtherance to secure it.	Fact
It has been submitted that the estimated rates of the works to be executed under various tenders were based on the prices of diesel stated therein in the respective Notice Inviting Tenders (NITs).	Fact
However, due to increase in the price of diesel post submissions of the bids and to retain the profitability and viability element for the bidders in the exercise, there was a provision of an upward revision in the estimated value of the works to be executed under the tender based on the deliberations of the Tender Committee.	Fact
It is further stated that in response to Tender Notice I for sand transportation at Mahakali Colliery of Chandrapur Area, OP 1, OP 2 and OP 4 were found to have qualified for Part II bids, OP 3 was disqualified.	Fact
It was noted by the Tender Committee that all the three qualified bidders quoted identical rates for all the three jobs mentioned in the said tender.	Fact
Further, the rates quoted by them were 20.3 above the estimated cost.	Fact
The Informant clarified that the trend of awarded rates for sand transportation tenders in the last two years had been 8.39 above to 9.26 below updated estimated cost.	Fact
Also, in response to Tender Notice Number 37/2013-14 (Tender Notice II) for sand transportation at Hindustan Lalpeth Colliery of Chandrapur Area, all the four bidders OP 1, OP 2, OP 3 and OP 4 met the eligibility criteria under Part I. It was, however, again noted by the Tender Committee that the three bidders OP 2, OP 3 and OP 4 quoted identical rates for all the three jobs mentioned in the said tender, while OP 1 quoted slightly higher than the others.	Fact
Further the Informant stated that the identical rate quoted by OP 2, OP 3 and OP 4 was 16.21 above the estimated cost.	Fact
Similarly, for Tender Notice Number 03/2014-15 (Tender Notice III) for coal transportation at Neeljay South OCM of Wan Area, all the five bidders namely, OP 5, OP 7, OP 8, OP 9 and OP 10 qualified the eligibility criteria under Part I. Yet again, four out of five bidders OP 5, OP 7, OP 9, and OP 10 were found to have quoted identical rates and became L-1.	Fact
It is submitted that L-1 rate was 38.47 above the estimated cost, 32.09 above the justified cost and 2.08 below ESM rates.	Fact
That the trend of awarded rates after revision of justified rates (after February 2013) is 27.72 below to 23.35 above the justified rates, 14.65 below to 41.98 above the updated estimated rates and 3.01 below to 41.76 below ESM rates.	Fact
For Tender Notice Number 06/2014-15 (Tender Notice IV) for coal transportation from loading point of Umrer CHP to wharf wall siding (Makardhokda Sub Area) of Umrer Area, OP 5, OP 6, OP 7 and OP 8 were found to have qualified the eligibility criteria.	Fact
It was noted that OP 5, OP 6 and OP 7 quoted identical rates and became L- It is submitted that the L-1 rates were 41.26/64.57 above the justified cost and 2.66 below overall ESM rates.	Fact
That the present trend of awarded rates is 27.72 below to 23.35 above justified rates, 14.65 below to 41.98 above the updated estimated rates and 3.01 below to 41.76 below ESM rates.	Fact
After having evaluated all the four above mentioned tenders, the Tender Committee is alleged to have noted that the rates were identical and significantly higher than the updated estimated value of the work under the tenders.	ArgumentPetitioner
It was stated that the Tender Committee recommended cancellation of all four tenders and suggested issuance of fresh tenders sensing the alleged foul play by the bidders.	ArgumentPetitioner
Based on the recommendation of the Tender Committee, the tenders were cancelled.	ArgumentPetitioner
It is further alleged that OP 7 and OP 8 have been working in close proximity and jointly bidding for work under different tenders contracts as Joint Venture partners.	ArgumentPetitioner
To substantiate this claim, the Informant has submitted that in one of the earlier tenders floated by the Informant, OP 7 and OP 8 along with another firm, M section Fuleco Coal (India) Limited placed their bid as a Joint Venture.	ArgumentPetitioner
Although the Informant has submitted that all of them were debarred for not being able to commence the work on time, the fact of their joint bidding was used to buttress the possibility of collusion and anti-competitive behaviour on their part.	ArgumentPetitioner
The Informant has submitted that the conduct of the Opposite Parties is allegedly pernicious, illegal and was aimed at vitiating the entire procurement process.	ArgumentPetitioner
It is further alleged that the conduct of the Opposite Parties in submitting identical bids was a blatant act of bid-rigging which was in clear violation of the provisions of the Act.	ArgumentPetitioner
Based on the above allegations, the Informant has alleged that the Opposite Parties have contravened the provisions of the Act and has prayed for initiating an investigation against the Opposite Parties under the Act.	ArgumentPetitioner
The Commission after perusing the information decided to call the parties for a preliminary conference on 01.07.2015.	Fact
On the said date, the Informant, OP 1, OP 3, OP 4, OP 7 and OP 9 appeared before the Commission and presented their oral arguments.	Fact
OP 8 has filed its written submissions.	Fact
OP 8 has denied in its reply to have adopted any unfair or anticompetitive practice.	ArgumentRespondent
It is stated that for Tender Notice I and II, no bid was submitted by OP 8.	ArgumentRespondent
Thus, question of any anti-competitive practice being adopted by OP 8, does not arise.	ArgumentRespondent
With regard to Tender Notice III, which was for coal transportation at Neeljay, it has been submitted that all five bidders including OP 8 submitted their bids.	ArgumentRespondent
Out of the 5 bidders, OP 9, OP 10 and OP 7 quoted identical rates but OP 8 quoted higher rates and thus became L-II.	ArgumentRespondent
As regards Tender Notice IV, OP 8 has stated that four bidders submitted their bids and were qualified for part-II bids.	ArgumentRespondent
Out of the four bidders, three bidders quoted identical rates and OP 8 quoted higher rates.	ArgumentRespondent
It has been contended that the conduct of OP 8 and the rates quoted by it was a prudent business decision and could not be considered as unfair.	ArgumentRespondent
Thus, no analogy could be drawn as to any unfair nexus between the Informant and OP 8.	ArgumentRespondent
It has further been submitted by OP 8 that the Tender Committee had wrongly arrived at the conclusion that the rates were identical and significantly higher than the updated estimated value of the work under the tenders.	ArgumentRespondent
The Commission has considered the submissions made by the Informant and the Opposite Parties.	Fact
From the facts and circumstances of the case, it appears that the Informant is basically aggrieved by the alleged anti-competitive conduct of the Opposite Parties which has resulted in bid rigging of the above mentioned four tenders floated by the Informant.	RatioOfTheDecision
Prima facie examination of the price bids submitted by various Opposite Parties in the 4 aforesaid tenders floated by the Informant indicates some arrangement amongst the Opposite Parties.	RatioOfTheDecision
It is quite apparent that while in some tender notices, all the Opposite Parties, qualified for Part II bidding, have quoted identical rates and in others with marginal difference.	RatioOfTheDecision
In Tender Notice I, for sand transportation at Mahakali Colliery, all the eligible bidders OP 1, OP 2 and OP 4 had quoted identical rates and similarly for Tender Notice II, for Hindustan Lalpeth Colliery, three out of four eligible bidders (OP 2, OP 3 and OP 4) had quoted identical rates while OP 1 quoted a rate which was marginally above the identical rate as quoted by the other three Opposite parties.	RatioOfTheDecision
Similarly, in Tender Notice III for coal transportation at Neeljay South OCM of Wan Area, four out of five bidders (OP 5, OP 7, OP 9, and OP 10) had quoted identical rates and for Tender Notice IV, three out of four bidders OP 5, OP 6 and OP 7 quoted identical rates for the said tender while OP 8 had quoted a price slightly above the identical price as quoted by the other three Opposite Parties.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Commission also observes that all the identical quotes were above the updated estimated and justified cost and mostly below ESM rates.	RatioOfTheDecision
These similarities prima facie indicate that there was some kind of an arrangement amongst the Opposite Parties to collude by aligning the prices for the sand and coal transportation tenders.	RatioOfTheDecision
Further, the fact that such identical rates in the four tenders were much above the average estimated costs portray that the same could not have been the result of independent decision making.	RatioOfTheDecision
From the facts on record, it appears that the Opposite Parties were coordinating and fixing the prices of their services with the object of distorting the fair bidding process.	RatioOfTheDecision
The identical price quotations submitted by the Opposite Parties appear to have actuated by mutual understanding arrangement or in other words agreement amongst them.	RatioOfTheDecision
Although some of the Opposite Parties had quoted different rates, their rates were too close to the identical rates as quoted by others which could not be a mere coincidence.	RatioOfTheDecision
In view of the foregoing, the Commission is of the view that the Opposite Parties have contravened the provisions of section 3(1) read with section 3(3)(d) of the Act.	RatioOfTheDecision
Though the Commission has considered the submissions made by the Opposite Parties whereby they have denied collusion, the evidence on record suggest that prima facie they had colluded for aligning the prices for the sand and coal transport tenders.	RatioOfTheDecision
Accordingly, the Commission, under section 26(1) of the Act, directs the Director General (DG) to cause an investigation into the matter and to complete the same within a period of 60 days from receipt of this order.	RulingByPresentCourt
In case the DG finds that the Opposite Parties have acted in contravention of the provisions of Act, it shall also investigate the role of the officials persons who at the time of such contravention were in-charge of and responsible for the conduct of the business of the company.	RulingByPresentCourt
Nothing stated in this order shall tantamount to a final expression of opinion on merit of the case and the DG shall conduct the investigation without being swayed in any manner whatsoever by the observations made herein.	RulingByPresentCourt
The Secretary is directed to send a copy of this order alongwith the information and the documents filed therewith to the Office of the DG forthwith.	RulingByPresentCourt
