The instant information has been filed by M s Singhania Partners LLP, (hereinafter referred to as the Informant) on 3rd August, 2010 under Section 19 of the Competition Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as the Act), against M s Microsoft Corporation (I) Pvt.	Fact
Limited (hereinafter referred to as Opposite Party Number 1) and M section Embee Software Pvt.	Fact
Limited (hereinafter referred to as the Opposite Party Number 2), inter alia, alleging anti competitive conduct and abuse of dominant position by the Opposite Party Number 1 in the sale of Operating System and Office Suite Software.	Fact
The facts and the allegations as stated in the information, in brief, are as under: 2.1 As per the Informant, the Opposite Party Number 1 is one of the worlds leading multinational computer technology Corporation that develops, manufactures, licenses and supports a wide range of computer Operating Systems and other software products for computing devices.	Fact
2 The Informant has submitted that it required Microsoft products Microsoft Operating System and Microsoft Office 2007 for the computers at its office.	Fact
During the marketing calls with Microsoft, one of the executives forwarded the name of Opposite Party Number 2, who is one of the dealers of the Microsoft.	Fact
Pursuant to discussion as to the requirement for the various licensed software and after understanding the requirement of the Informant, the Opposite Party Number 2 official vide e-mail dated, 20th November, 2008 sent a proposal to the Informant for Microsoft Vista Business and MS Office 2007 software for consideration.	Fact
After considering the said proposal received from Opposite Party Number 2, the Informant vide letter dated, 21st November, 2008 placed an order Informant also sent a cheque for Rs. 1,97,250 on 24th November, 2008 towards 50 per cent of the advance payment against the said order as requested by Opposite Party Number 2.	Fact
3 As per the Informant, subsequent to the placing of the Order, the Informant was informed by one of the executives of the Opposite Party Number 1 that only the Volume licenses of the Ordered products can be purchased and not the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) Licenses, which are available only when a new machine is purchased.	Fact
2.4 As per the Informant, the above executive of the Opposite Party Number 1 pressurized the Opposite Party Number 2 to cancel the purchase order placed by the Informant.	Fact
The above executive further directed the Informant to place an order for the volume licenses instead of OEM license.	Fact
The Informant was also informed that the price for the volume licenses was almost double to the prices quoted for the OEM license in spite of the fact that the products were same.	Fact
2 .5 The Opposite Party Number 2 vide its email dated, 27th November, 2008 cancelled the Order of the Informant and insisted to place another Purchase Order for the required software at the prices quoted for volume license.	Fact
As per the Informant, due to the urgency of the software, the Informant placed the revised order with the Opposite Party Number 2 at the quoted higher rates of volume license amounting to Rs. 5,71,816 excluding of taxes.	Fact
2.6 As per the Informant, if the same software is licensed to new computer, i.e., OEM license then the same is cheaper and if it is licensed to existing computers, i.e., Volume License, then the same shall cost more.	Fact
7 It is also submitted by the Informant that in another instance, the Informant on 20th January, 2009 placed an online order for the purchase of Microsoft Office Professional 2007 Software after enquiring on the alleged web site of the Opposite Party Number 1.	Fact
On receipt of the software, it was found by the Informant that the above software was labeled as for use only with a new PC with 2007 Microsoft Office Suite or component application software pre installed.	Fact
As per the Informant, at the time of the placing the Order on the alleged web site of the Opposite Party Number 1, there was no mention of such a condition.	Fact
It has been alleged by the Informant that as per the aforesaid website of the Opposite Party Number 1, different dealers of the Opposite Party Number 1 are selling the same product at different prices and a small percentage of them offers the same at the lowest price which appears to be artificially controlling the prices by the Opposite Party Number 1.	ArgumentPetitioner
2.8 As per the Informant, it was noticed by him that on different dates, one dealer of the Opposite Party Number 1 quoted the lower prices and the other quoted higher prices giving an impression to the buyer customer that he is getting the lowest price available in the market.	ArgumentPetitioner
2.9 It has also been alleged by the Informant, that Opposite Party Number 1 is having a market share of 90 per cent and a dominant firm in the market, its over pricing in the name of volume license and coercing the Informant to buy volume license rather than OEM license, which was offered at double the price, in spite of the fact the product were same, is a violation of Section 4(2)(a)(ii) of the Act, as there was a discriminatory pricing by the Opposite Party Number 1.	ArgumentPetitioner
2 .1 0 The Informant has also alleged that the Opposite Party Number 1 has violated the provisions of Section 3 of the Act by imposing restriction on the consumer in acquiring license of Windows Operating System and thereby artificially controlling the supply and pricing of its products.	ArgumentPetitioner
It has been further alleged that the Opposite Party Number 1 has entered into agreement with the original equipment manufacturers and offers them operating system at a rebate, this leaves an adverse impact on the market whereby all the other manufacturers of the Operating System will be eventually dragged out of the market because most of the computer shipped by the OE Ms will be having pre installed Windows Operating System as per the agreement between the Opposite Party Number 1 and OE Ms. 3 .	ArgumentPetitioner
On 18th August, 2010, Amarchand Mangal Das Shroff, Advocates on behalf of the Opposite Party Number 2 filed an application before the Commission and requested for an opportunity to inspect the case file and appear before the Commission before framing any opinion by the Commission.	Fact
The above said request was considered by the Commission in its meeting held on 19th August, 2010 and the permission as requested was granted to the Opposite Party Number 1.	Fact
On 20th September, 2010.	Fact
the Informant filed certain additional document which were the transcripts of conversation between the Informant and the Official of the Opposite Party Number 1.	Fact
On 1st October, 2010, the Opposite Party Number 1 through its Advocate, Amarchand Mangal Das, filed written submissions.	Fact
The Informant on 8th November, 2010 filed the rejoinder to the written submission filed by the Opposite Party Number 1 and also filed additional Affidavit on 19th November, 2010.	Fact
Thereafter the Opposite Party Number 1 has filed its reply to the rejoinder filed by the Informant.	Fact
The informant has also filed the written synopsis of the argument advanced by him on 14th December, 2010.	Fact
The Commission has carefully considered all the relevant material filed by the parties and the oral arguments advanced by the parties.	Fact
The brief of the written submissions filed by the Opposite Party Number 1 is dealt with in the ongoing paragraphs.	Fact
It is submitted by the Opposite Party Number 1 that the Informant has failed to raise a competition law concern in this case.	ArgumentRespondent
As per the Opposite Party Number 1, it licenses its products through three main channels of distribution namely OEM, Volume License and Retail chain.	ArgumentRespondent
Further, it has to protect its Intellectual Property Rights and prevent piracy of its products.	ArgumentRespondent
Software is a form of an IP Right and Software licenses govern the usage and re-distribution of that property.	ArgumentRespondent
As per the Opposite Party Number 1 its relationship with its distributors and resellers is independent and does not create any principal agent relationship.	ArgumentRespondent
It sells its products licenses to its distributors and resellers on a principal to principal basis.	ArgumentRespondent
As per the submissions of the Opposite Party Number 1, it does not sell its products rather license them to its customers for specific uses on specific licensing terms.	ArgumentRespondent
Further, it is the license itself which determines the nature of the product that is being granted to the customer.	ArgumentRespondent
The licensing policy followed by it is its global policy, which is similar to the practices utilized by most IT firms, across the globe.	ArgumentRespondent
The Opposite Party Number 1 has submitted that the three aforesaid distribution channels are distinct with different licensing rights to maximize distribution efficiency.	ArgumentRespondent
OEM distribution is the highest volume channels of Microsoft, It involves sales and distribution to branded PC manufactures and because of the size of its distribution channel, it offered the lowest royalty rates for Windows and Office software.	ArgumentRespondent
As per the Opposite Party Number 1, OEM license are different in the nature than those purchased through other channels.	ArgumentRespondent
OEM version of the Operating System may not be resold unless it is installed on a PC.	ArgumentRespondent
OEM channel provides efficiencies such as installation, testing, support, warrantee, activation and updates and stability.	ArgumentRespondent
It is also submitted by the Opposite Party Number 1 that Microsofts agreement with the OE Ms does not require that OE Ms can install Windows or Office exclusively on the P Cs.	ArgumentRespondent
OE Ms are free to distribute P Cs with non Microsoft Software or without software at all.	ArgumentRespondent
As per the Opposite Party Number 1, approximately 30 per cent of the P Cs sold by OE Ms in India have Windows preinstalled and less than 1 per cent of P Cs have licensed Microsoft Office software pre installed.	ArgumentRespondent
As per the Opposite Party Number 1, Volume License channel is the most significant channel for businesses and other organizations.	ArgumentRespondent
These are sold in larger volume and the customers can upgrade from older OEM or retail version to the most recent version of the Operating System.	ArgumentRespondent
Volume Licensing customers do not provide with many of the benefits and services as compared with the OE Ms, including the benefit of testing.	ArgumentRespondent
In addition, Microsoft has to consider the cost of support for volume license customers, coupled with higher packaging costs.	ArgumentRespondent
As per the Opposite Party Number 1, in its third distribution channel, i.e., retail distribution it offers Windows and Office for sale through retailers, this is the lowest volume channel however, with highest cost.	ArgumentRespondent
The Opposite Party Number 1 denied each and every allegation leveled against it by the Informant and stated that the Informant and the Opposite Party Number 2 were informed by it that the Software licenses being purchased by the Informant were inappropriate for the intended use and requested the Informant to purchase the appropriate software licenses.	ArgumentRespondent
Further, discounts for OEM channels are not unique to the software industry, the difference between the wholesale price and the retail price is common in every industry and offers greater benefits to the consumers.	ArgumentRespondent
In response to the written submissions filed by the Opposite Party Number 1, the Informant filed rejoinder dated, 8th November, 2010 and reiterated all the facts stated earlier in the information.	Fact
The Informant further submitted that the Opposite Party Number 1 is attempting to divert the Commissions attention to an irrelevant issue by raising the issue of protection of IP Rights and Piracy.	ArgumentPetitioner
As per written submissions of Informant, the network of distributors and resellers engaged by Opposite Party Number 1 are not independent and it exercises tight control over the network and pursues a highly interventionist policy in steering the so called independent distributors to act as per it.	ArgumentPetitioner
The Informant further submitted that different royalty rates being charged by the Opposite Party Number 1 for different licenses is a strategy adopted by Microsoft to maintain its monopoly in the market under the garb of its licensing policy.	ArgumentPetitioner
The Informant has also alleged that the licensing policy of the Opposite Party Number 1 is nothing but an artificial device for controlling the downstream distribution chain and a pretext for imposing unfair prices and conditions on consumers at the next level in the chain which is prohibited under the Act.	ArgumentPetitioner
The Informant has further alleged that the coordination between the Opposite Party Number 1 and Opposite Party Number 2 would qualify as a practice action to maintain resale price in the distribution chain and is therefore, violative of Section 3(4)(e) of the Act.	ArgumentPetitioner
The Informant has also submitted that the global licensing policy is not uniform as claimed by the Opposite Party Number 1. 1 6 .	ArgumentPetitioner
The Commission has carefully gone through all the above submissions, documents and the other material filed by the parties.	Fact
It is noted that the information is centered on the fact that the Opposite Party Number 1 is selling the same product, i.e., Operating System and Office Program at different prices in the garb of its various licensing policies.	RatioOfTheDecision
It is observed by the Commission that the Opposite Party Number 1 is selling its various Software Licenses throughout the world and as per the submissions of Opposite Party Number 1 the policy of selling these licenses is followed across the World by it.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Opposite Party Number 1 has also submitted that it is licensing its products through three channels which are different in pricing, royalty, intended use of the user and efficiency etc.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Commission has carefully considered the various arguments advanced by the parties and observed that there is nothing adverse which can contradict the above submissions of the Opposite Party Number 1.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Commission, prima facie, has not found any substantial material which can establish that the different pricing policy adopted by the Opposite Party Number 1 in respect of different types of licenses raises any competition issue.	RatioOfTheDecision
There is nothing on record which could prima facie indicate that the three types of licenses which are being sold by the Opposite Party Number 1 through its dealers retailers are actually similar to each other and there is no difference between these licenses.	RatioOfTheDecision
Further, the Informant has also not placed on record any material which can suggest that the aforesaid three licenses are similar on the basis of intended use of the customer, or all are equal in terms of efficiency, royalty and on technical aspects.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Commission also does not find any material which could indicate that because of the dominant position of the Opposite Party Number 1 in the Operating System and its agreement with the OEM manufacturers, it has driven any competitor out of the market.	RatioOfTheDecision
Further, the Informant has himself admitted in his information that all the dealers are quoting different rates of the same product of the Opposite Party Number 1 therefore, prima facie, there cannot be any resale price maintenance restraint existing.	RatioOfTheDecision
It is important to note that the Informant has not been able to bring any cogent evidence on record to show that the Opposite Party is abusing its dominant position in the relevant market and the conditions imposed by it are violative of the provisions of Section 4 of Act.	RatioOfTheDecision
The allegations and averments made by the Informant have not been supported and corroborated in material particulars by any reliable evidence.	RatioOfTheDecision
In this respect in the absence of any material to the contrary, the Commission sees no reason to disagree with the explanation offered by the Opposite Party Number 1 on its policy relating to different distribution channels.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Commission, therefore, is of the opinion that the Informant has failed to make out a prima facie case for making a reference to the Director General for conducting investigation into the matter under Section 26(1) of the Act and the proceeding related to the instant case deserve to be closed forthwith.	RatioOfTheDecision
In view of the above discussion, the matter relating to the information is hereby closed under Section 26(2) of the Act.	RulingByPresentCourt
Secretary is directed to inform the Informant accordingly.	RulingByPresentCourt
Prasad, Member (Dissenting) The present information has been filed under Section 19(1)(a) of the Competition Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) on 30th August, 2010 by the informant for instituting an investigation into alleged abuse of dominant position and anti competitive agreements indulged into by the opposite parties named hereinabove.	Dissent
The informant is a limited liability partnership of advocates and solicitors which placed orders for Microsoft Vista Business under original equipment manufacturers (OEM) category through a dealer of the Microsoft, i.e., Opposite Party Number 2.	Dissent
For this, the informant paid 50 per cent of the price as an advance to the dealer.	Dissent
However, the informant was later told by the Opposite Party Number 1 that the informant has wrongly placed an order under the OEM category for which the informant firm was not eligible and instead it was eligible for the Volume license category.	Dissent
The price difference in the two categories was quite substantial and it costs around double of the OEM price, though the products are same According to the Informant no reasonable justification for this differential pricing was ever provided to them by the opposite parties.	Dissent
Left with no other choice, informant cancelled its earlier purchase order and placed a fresh order under Volume license category informing the opposite parties of its right to a legal recourse.	Dissent
Another allegation leveled against the opposite parties is that the informant purchased the Microsoft Office Professional 2007 from a website alleged to be launched by Opposite Party Number 1 www.buyoriginalms.com.	Dissent
The Microsoft, however, has denied the ownership of this website.	Dissent
When the informant tried to install the above software, it was noticed that it could be used only with a new PC having 2007 MS Office Suite or component application software pre installed.	Dissent
As per the informant no such condition was ever mentioned while purchasing the product.	Dissent
The informant, therefore, has alleged that: The Opposite Party Number 1 has abused its dominant position by directly imposing unfair, excessive and discriminatory prices on the consumers in the sale of the above two softwares and thereby contravened the provisions of Section 4(2)(a)(ii) of the Act.	Dissent
The agreements between Microsoft and the Original Equipment Manufacturers infringe provisions of the Act by-(a) directly determining the sales price violating Section 3(3)(a) (b) controlling the supply of software under Section 3(3)(b) Though the information provided by the information providers is limited, it is the duty of the Competition authorities to take into account all the factors which are anti competitive even if they are not part of the information.	Dissent
I have carefully considered the facts of the case, the averments made in the information as well as information available in public domain.	Dissent
It is found that Microsoft on the basis of its annual reports has around 80 per cent of market share in the operating systems (Windows Systems).	Dissent
Though there are other competitors in the operating systems market e.g. Apple, Google, and Linux but there appears to be marginal competition as their combined market share is only 10 per cent.	Dissent
Thus, there is strong possibility that Microsoft is a dominant player in that market.	Dissent
The Microsoft is selling its software packages under two different categories, i.e., OEM category and Volume License Category having two different price structure.	Dissent
The price under Volume License Category is almost double that under the OEM category.	Dissent
The conditions laid down in selling the products under different categories, i.e., through Original Equipment Manufacturer (OE Ms), Volume Licensing or Full Packaged Product (FPP), even though the products are by and large same, with different price structure for the same product.	Dissent
Microsoft charges much lower price for software bundled into a new PC, but charges upto thrice of that for software purchased separately for an old PC.	Dissent
The difference is not enough to suffice as bulk discount and appears an attempt to exploit its monopoly in the software market, by exploiting one segment of buyers.	Dissent
This practice can be seen as unfair and discriminatory in view of the Act.	Dissent
On the second issue that the desktop software packages of Microsoft which has 90 per cent market share do not run smoothly on other operating systems and it can run only on windows Operating system of Microsoft.	Dissent
In order to mitigate competition in the operating system segment Microsoft is trying to protect its operating system (OS) market by making the software packages compatible only with windows Operating system of Microsoft.	Dissent
The blocking of interoperability with other OS can be considered as abuse of its dominance as prohibited under the Act.	Dissent
This also came to our knowledge that the Volume license of the Microsoft can only be used as an upgrade for older version of Windows to incorporate the features of a new version of Windows.	Dissent
The Microsoft offered an upgrade version of Windows at price higher than the Full version of new Windows.	Dissent
The Consumer already having the older version will be bound to purchase full new version.	Dissent
This is the abuse of dominance by discriminating in terms of price and attracting likely infringement of the Act 33.	Dissent
Another possible practice as per the licensing policy as stated by Microsoft does not allow the OEM licensee to transfer the license from one machine to another even if the person is abandoning the use of old machine.	Dissent
This way it restricts the right of consumers which apparently violates provision under the Act.	Dissent
In accordance with the information available in the Public domain, a search was made for the price of Windows Vista Home Basic Version Full.	Dissent
In China the price of this product was USD 72.53 in 2008 and same product is available at prices ranging between the 100 - 190 at various websites.	Dissent
Through this model Microsoft discriminates among the consumers which are seemingly against the spirit of the Act, which can only be substantiated through investigation under the Act.	Dissent
Further, the OEM license is available only through the manufacturers, FPP for individual intending to buy for 5 or less P Cs and Volume license only for upgradation.	Dissent
It creates a baffling situation for a customer who intends to buy more than 5 P Cs.	Dissent
The only option left to him is to go for OEM.	Dissent
This in a way supports the sale of OEM and contributes in maintaining the monopoly of the Microsoft in the Operating system segment.	Dissent
Microsoft sells its office package to retail purchasers at a much higher price than what it charges to OE Ms (i.e. new machines).	Dissent
To have cheaper version of office package one has to buy a new PC.	Dissent
Thus, Microsoft is able to maintain retail price of its office package.	Dissent
Therefore, the vertical agreement between Microsoft and the OE Ms is a mutually beneficial deal, whereby they support each other to expand business and hinders competition in the relevant market.	Dissent
Microsoft once has sold the softwares to the intermediaries (resellers) like Embee, even though it maintains full control on the prices of various software at which the resellers further sell to end users in the garb of licensing policy.	Dissent
This practice has every chance to restrict the competition in the market.	Dissent
It also came to knowledge that In the State of Iowa and California at United States Microsoft was sued on behalf of consumers alleging that the Microsoft abused its monopoly position in the desktop computing market through price discrimination, overcharging and unfair competition for products such as Windows and Office thereby violating the respective states Antitrust Law.	Dissent
In 2007, Microsoft was ordered to refund the difference to volume licensees for abusing its monopoly position.	Dissent
Further more it was also seen that Microsoft packages do not run smoothly on other operating systems.	Dissent
Since, MS packages comprise of 90 per cent of the market such situation stunts the growth of other operating systems and also chokes development of other software.	Dissent
The practices adopted by the Microsoft appears to be limiting or controlling production, supply, markets and technical development.	Dissent
Therefore, its agreement with OE Ms appears to attract infringement of the Act, 2002.	Dissent
On through perusal of the information provided by the informant, material on record and submissions by the opposite parties, and also the information available in the public domain, I find substance to opine that there exists a prima facie violation of the Act related to abuse of dominance and anti competitive agreements and I am inclined to direct DG to investigate the matter under Section 26(1) of the Act However, this is a minority (dissenting) order no further compliance is required for the same.	Dissent
