These appeals have been filed against a common Order dated 10.7.2015 passed by the Competition Commission of India (for short the Commission) under Section 27 of the Competition Act (for short, the Act).	Fact
The Commission was of the view that National Insurance Company Limited (NIICL), New India Assurance Company Limited (NIACL), Oriental Insurance Company Limited (OICL),United India Insurance Company Limited(UIICL), (henceforth collectively referred as Appellants) had manipulated the bidding process initiated by the Government of Kerala in regard to the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojna RSBY Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme CHIS, in contravention of the provisions of Section 3(1) read with Section 3(3)(d) of the Act.	Fact
Resultantly, the Commission directed the Appellants to cease and desist from indulging in the practices found anti-competitive and also imposed a penalty on each of the Appellant at the rate of 2 of its average turnover of the last three financial years.	Fact
1 . 1 NIICL was incorporated on 5th December, 1906, NIACL on 23rd July, 1919, UIICL on 18th February, 1938, and OICL on 12th September, 1974.	Fact
Management of all the undertakings engaged in general insurance business, pending nationalisation of such business, was vested with Government of India by virtue of The General Insurance (Emergency Provisions) Ordinance, 1971.	Fact
Thereafter, General Insurance Business (Nationalization) Act, 1972 (hereinafter, GIBNA), nationalized the general insurance business and various companies were merged with the Appellants and the four Appellants became wholly owned subsidiaries of the General Insurance Corporation of India (hereinafter referred to as GIC).	Fact
The Appellants and GIC had the exclusive privilege of carrying on general insurance business in India, which ceased with the commencement of Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999, when Section 24A was inserted in GIBNA.	Fact
The General Insurance Business (Nationalization) Amendment Act of 2002, transferred the shares of the four Appellants held by GIC to the Central Government, and GIC ceased to carry on general insurance business.	Fact
The Commission decided to inquire into the alleged contravention, on its own motion, after it received an anonymous letter in September 2013.	Fact
This letter was addressed to the Chief Minister of Kerala with endorsement to various authorities in Government of Kerala and Government of India as also to the Chairperson, Competition Commission of India.	Fact
The relevant extract from the letter is as follows: Reg: Cartelization of public sector insurance companies in quoting RSBY Premium Please see the attached document.	Fact
It is the clear proof of cheating by four Public Sector Insurance Companies.	Fact
These Insurance Companies have formed a cartel and increased the premium for RSBY every year and thus cheating the Govt.	Fact
of Kerala and BPL people also.	Fact
This type of cartelization is violation of competition Act.	Fact
Violation of any act is punishable offence under IPC.	Fact
The officials who have signed the document presently working in key positions of various public sector insurance companies.	Fact
If you verify the records you will find that the premium is shared with private companies also, that means the cartelization is not only with public sector insurance but also with private companies.	Fact
As citizen of India I request your good self to intervene in the matter and appropriate decision may be taken to desist the companies from this type of cheating.	Fact
Please not that one of the signatories is presently working as CVO of one of the public sector insurance companies.	Fact
By signing the cartelization agreement he has also violated competition Act and thus lost his institutional integrity.	Fact
The Supreme Court in P.J. Thomas case has said the touchstone for the appointment of the CVC is the institutional integrity as well as the personal integrity of the candidate.	Fact
This is applicable to CVOs also.	Fact
The attached document referred to in the anonymous letter is reproduced below: UNITED INDIA INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED REGIONAL OFFICE:KOCHI Inter Company co-ordination Committee (PSU General Insurance Companies) Minutes of the ICCC Meeting Held at United India Insurance Limited Regional Office, Kochi on 07.12.2009.	Fact
THE MEETING WAS ATTENDED BY FOLLOWING OFFICERS: Sri B.Krishnamurthy, DGM, United India Ins.	Fact
Company Limited RO Kochi Sri Girish Raj.	Fact
CRM, New India Insurance Company Limited RO Kochi Sri Rajasekharan CRM, National Insurance Company Limited, RO Kochi Sri Ramamurthy, Regional manager, Oriental Ins.	Fact
Company Limited Other Officer.	Fact
Re: Tender Notice on RSBY dated 18/11/2009 of Govt.	Fact
of Kerala This ICCC Meeting was held to discuss about sharing of business and submission of quotation for the above business.	Fact
It was decided to share the business among the four PSUs with United India as Leader with 70 and other Companies with 10 each.	Fact
This decision is subject to the approval of Committee of General managers of all four PSU Companies.	Fact
As per the above decision United India will be L1 and other three PSUs will be L2 to L4 in the quotation being submitted on 8th December 2009.	Fact
The Commission decided to consider the matter and in response to a query letter dated 18.10.2013 from the Secretary of the Commission, the Appellants confirmed that the minutes of the ICCC meeting of 7.12.2009 were authentic and that the officers of their respective companies had signed the minutes, and that they had participated in the tender dated 18.11.2009.	Fact
As regards the purpose of the meeting, the response of the Appellants had the same tenor i.e., the ICCC meetings were held when major tenders, with large premium and large foreseen claims, were expected and as the RSBY scheme of the Government of Kerala was a mass health insurance scheme, a local level meeting was organized at the Kochi regional office of United India Insurance Company Limited (UIICL) to build capacity, and co-share business in order to share risks.	Fact
The Commission considered the information and the response of the Appellants and took the view that the Appellants were independent enterprises under Section 2(h) of the Act.	Fact
Commission noted that, the minutes of the ICCC meeting showed discussion regarding submission of quotations for the tender notice for RSBY and prima facie there appeared to be an agreement or arrangement between the OPs as bidders for rigging bid in tenders issued by Government of Kerala for RSBY Scheme in contravention of the provisions of Section 3(3) of the Act.	Fact
The Commission, vide its Order dated February 12, 2014, under Section 26(1) of the Act, directed the Director General (DG) to investigate the matter for violation of the provisions of the Act and also to investigate the role of the persons who at the time of such contravention were in-charge of and responsible for the conduct of the business of the Appellant, if any company was found contravening the provisions of the Act.	Fact
We may note some admitted facts regarding the RSBY (CHIS) scheme and the tenders issued by Government of Kerala inviting competitive bids for implementation of these schemes.	Fact
6.1 Government of India had, in June 2008, launched RSBY for BPL workers in the unorganized sector as defined by the Planning Commission, and their families.	Fact
Government of Kerala (GOK) vide its order dated 4th July 2008, announced the modalities for implementing RSBY and a Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CHIS) which was extended to all the families other than the BPL families covered under the RSBY.	Fact
As per this order - RSBY would provide annual insurance cover for a maximum amount of Rs. 30,000 for a family of five, including the worker, spouse, children and dependent parents (included in the BPL family list), and the annual insurance premium not exceeding Rs. 750/- was to be decided through tender process.	Fact
Under the scheme, the Union Government was to meet 75 percent of the premium (not exceeding Rs. 565), and also the cost of a Smart Card for each family, estimated at Rs. 60 per card.	Fact
The beneficiaries had to pay an annual registration charge of Rs. 30/- per family (which was part of the insurance premium to be paid to the insurance provider), and the State Government was to pay the rest of the premium, together with the administrative cost.	Fact
The scheme was to be implemented in all the 14 districts of the State.	Fact
Non-RSBY population was covered under CHIS and was to be divided into two categories: (a) those belonging to the BPL (Poor) list of the State Government but not in the list as per definition of the Planning Commission and (b) the APL families that belong neither to the State Government list nor to the list prepared as per guidelines of the Planning Commission.	Fact
The beneficiary contribution was to be Rs. 100 per annum per family for families belonging to category (a), with the State Government meeting the balance including for the smart card.	Fact
The entire amount of premium plus the cost of smart card, for families belonging to category (b) was to be met by them.	Fact
Insurance provider companies in both public and private sector were to be considered with the selection through tender process.	Fact
Bulk of insurance premium paid by the Central Government and State Government would flow-back to the public healthcare system itself which was to be used for improving the system.	Fact
For this: (i) each Public Healthcare Institution would be allowed to retain the insurance premium flow-back that it obtained, at least for the first year, after which the matter would be reviewed (ii) a system of bonus for the medical staff and other staff in each public institution, based on the magnitude of flow-back, was to be worked out which provided incentives to the individual members of the institution.	Fact
RSBY CHIS were to be implemented in all the district of State and a separate agency namely Comprehensive Health Insurance Agency of Kerala (CHIAK) was created for implementation of the scheme.	Fact
A high level Committee of various senior officers was constituted to evaluate the technical bids and to negotiate with the insurance companies.	Fact
A High Powered Supervisory Council consisting of Ministers of Labour Excise, Health and Social Welfare and various senior officers of Government of Kerala was also constituted.	Fact
6.2 GOK, in July 2008 invited bids from Insurance companies licensed and registered with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) and agencies enabled by any Central legislation to undertake health insurance related activities.	Fact
The tender was awarded to UIICL and an Agreement was entered into between Government of Kerala and UIICL on 2.10.2008 which was to remain in force for one year, but was later extended upto 31.3.2010.	Fact
On 18.11.2009, CHIAK issued a tender for selecting the Insurer for a period of three years commencing from 1.4.2010 under RSBY CHIS schemes and the closing date for submission of the completed bid documents was 8.12.2009.	Fact
6.3 A day before the closing of bid, i.e., 7.12.2009, officers of the Appellants met at Kochi and the minutes of the said meeting have been extracted in paragraph 3 above.	Fact
Seven insurance companies including the four Appellants submitted the tender documents.	Fact
Of the four Appellants, UIICL quoted the lowest price and this was in accordance with the decision taken in the ICCC meeting on 7.12.2009.	Fact
All the bidders were considered as qualifying in the first meeting of the Technical Evaluation Committee (TEC) but in its second meeting on 21.12.2009, the TEC evaluated the bids on the basis of a scoring system and decided that bidders scoring 50 and above would be declared successful in the technical rounds.	Fact
UIICL and OICL were declared successful in the technical rounds and the financial bid of UIICL at Rs. 464 being the lowest was accepted for implementation of RSBY and CHIS scheme in Kerala for a period of three years with effect from 1.4.2010 subject to yearly renewal.	Fact
In September 2010, UIICL wrote to CHIAK for a review of the premium payable under the scheme for the coming years, claiming adverse claim experience during the past year and the current year.	Fact
Vide another letter dated 10.11.2010, UIICL reiterated to re-consider the position on the ground that it would be impossible to continue with the scheme in view of the alarming claims experience which was projected to cause a deficit of nearly Rs. 50 crores over premium income.	Fact
However, since there was no legal provision to allow a premium increase, UIICL exited the scheme under clause 31 (Term and Termination) (ii) (c) of the Agreement dated 11.8.2010.	Fact
6.4 CHIAK issued a fresh tender on 21.11.2010, in response to which it received tender bids of seven insurance companies including the four Appellants.	Fact
The TEC in its first meeting held on 6.12.2010 decided on the parameters to evaluate the bids and in its second meeting of 13.12.2010 evaluated all the seven bids and following the earlier years benchmark of minimum 50 marks or above, UIICL and NIACL were declared technically qualified.	Fact
Since the bids at Rs. 825(with ST) and 827(with ST) were considered high, the matter was referred to the High Powered Supervisory Council (HPSC) which directed that the matter be discussed with UIICL because, though there was no scope for negotiation with reference to premium, there was room for discussion on the additional benefits which could be extended to the beneficiaries.	Fact
UIICL agreed to offer certain additional benefits with maximum amount limited to Rs. 15 per enrolled family.	Fact
HPSC decided that the scheme had to be continued and there was no alternative but to approve the premium which was based on the tender process.	Fact
However, considering the high financial implication it directed that the matter be placed before the Council of Ministers for approval.	Fact
Government sanction was granted vide Order dated 3.1.2011 for accepting the bid of UIICL for 3 years with effect from 2011-2012.	Fact
In March, 2011 an interim Agreement was signed between CHIAK and UIICL providing adjustment of the premium on the basis of claims experience.	Fact
While final Agreement was yet to be signed, UIICL in its Office Note dated 1.12.2011, inter alia, recorded that considering the projected losses and information from CHIAK that, the Government had refused to include the premium adjustment clause in the final Agreement, CHIAK should be informed that unless increased premium was paid, it would exit the scheme under clause 18 of the Interim Agreement.	Fact
This Office Note concludes with the following: If we exit the Scheme, CHIAK may go for re-tendering.	Fact
We may again participate in the process quoting appropriate higher premium jointly with other PSUs.	Fact
In the above circumstances we may seek Head Office approval for our following recommendations: To issue a formal letter to CHIAK asking for increased premium for our continuation in the Scheme for the next year.	Fact
If CHIAK State Government does not agree to the above, to exit the Scheme through the Cancellation Provision of the Agreement.	Fact
6 .5 On 6.12.2011 a final Agreement without the premium adjustment clause was executed.	Fact
UIICL vide letter dated 9.12.2011 gave a termination notice as per clause 21(ii) (c) of the said Agreement on the ground that they were making losses and their request for increase of premium to Rs. 1100 was not accepted.	Fact
6.6 Thereafter, CHIAK issued fresh tender with last date for submission of bids being 30.12.2011.	Fact
An internal Office Note of OICL signed on 28.12.2011, after the fresh tender was published, is reproduced below: OFFICE NOTE RE:RSBY FOR THE YEAR 2012-13 The RSBY Scheme of Kerala Government was insured by United India Insurance company right from 2008.	Fact
In 2010-11, Oriental took a 15 share.	Fact
From the beginning, the scheme was making loss to the insurance companies.	Fact
The ICR for the past three polices is as follows : 2008-2009 -- 116.23 2010-11 -- 189 2011-12 -- 133.80 In view of heavy losses, UIIC demanded increase in premium per family from Rs. 748 to Rs. 1100 and on the government refusing to pay the increased amount.	Fact
UIIC terminated the policy vide their letter dated 09.12.2011.	Fact
Subsequently, CHIAK (the authority designated for running the scheme) called for fresh tenders.	Fact
The last date for submission of tender is 30.12.2011.	Fact
As far as Oriental is concerned, we had a 15 share in 2010-11 and the ICR was 189.	Fact
There were some difficulties in getting the correct claim figures from UIIC anticipating continued losses in 2011-12, we refrained from participating and informed the same to UIICL.	Fact
After the fresh tender was published, UIIC called for a meeting of all the four PSUs and discussed the reason for the past loss makings.	Fact
We participated in the meeting without any commitment to share the premium.	Fact
From our experience, we feel that whatever be the rate charged the scheme will run into losses in view of the increased awareness of the scheme among the public.	Fact
Loss control measures like surprise checks, hospital visit etc.	Fact
undertaken by UIIC for the past three years have not yielded any result.	Fact
In view of the above we may not participate in the tender either as a sole insurer or a co-insurer.	Fact
(emphasis supplied) 6.7 However, all the Appellants bid in response to the tender.	Fact
UIICL was the lowest bidder at Rs. 1274 which it agreed to reduce to Rs. 1100 and GOK accorded sanction to accept UIICL as the insurance provider for 2012-2013.	Fact
At the request of UIICL that incentive to hospital staff be discontinued to eliminate wrong practices, GOK also ordered that incentive share of RSBY fund, received by the hospital from the Insurance provider, would be limited to 5 as demanded by UIICL and 95 be kept in the RSBY fund for infrastructure development.	Fact
6.8 GOK invited fresh tenders for the years 2013-2016.	Fact
The Appellants bid again.	Fact
UIICL was the lowest bidder amongst the Appellants at Rs. 1150 but the bid was won by Reliance General Insurance Company Limited with a quote of Rs. 738.	Fact
We now revert to the proceedings in the Commission.	Fact
Pursuant to the Order of the Commission under Section 26(1) of the Act, the DG conducted investigation into the actions of the Appellants relating to the tenders issued by the GOK for the years 2010-11 to 2012-13.	Fact
DGs findings were as follows: The authenticity of the ICCC document was established.	Fact
The conduct of the Appellants was clearly collusive in nature and as decided in the ICCC meeting, UIICL quoted the lowest bid amount amongst the Appellants for the year 2010-11 to 2012-13 to win the bid and cut the competition among themselves.	Fact
The bid amount quoted for these years and even the increase in the bid amount by the Appellants showed a clear pattern of growth as evident from the table below: 3 .	Fact
In a competitive environment in a tendering process for selection, those who were not placed as L1 would have a tendency to competitively outbid the L1 i.e UIICL, to get the business.	Fact
However, in this case the other Appellants rather increased their quote price at higher percentage in subsequent years, showing a clear pattern of formation of cartel which was in violation of Section 3(3) (d) of the Act.	Fact
The Appellants not only formed a cartel, but also shared the business amongst themselves in the ratio which was decided in the ICCC meeting.	Fact
The argument of co-insurance was not acceptable as the RSBY scheme did not allow for any sharing of business through coinsurance.	Fact
Any sharing of business through co-insurance had to be done, if any, with the express approval of the client (in this case CHIAK).	Fact
However, the Executive Director of CHIAK had specifically stated on Oath that no such communication or approval was taken by the Appellants.	Fact
This was also confirmed by Shri V. Sajan, DGM, UIICL, Kochi in his statement.	Fact
The role of CHIAK was not above board as it adopted certain parameters which were not mentioned in the tender documents to select the insurer and an arbitrary marking system was followed.	Fact
The contravention of competition laws was not only done at regional level but at the Head Office level with proper planning and understanding and the Head Offices, which approved the financial bids, were fully aware of the cartel.	Fact
The complainant had alleged that the private insurance companies were also involved in the cartel, but no evidence for that could be found during investigation.	Fact
For the year 2013-14, CHIAK managed the tender process in a very transparent and competitive way leading to selection of Reliance General Insurance Company Limited at a quote of Rs. 738/- for three years 2013-2016.	Fact
This quote was much below the price quoted by the UIICL in the previous year 2012-13 i.e Rs. 1274 (subsequently reduced to Rs. 1100 on negotiation).	Fact
Reliance General Insurance Company Limited had informed that the scheme was running well at Rs. 738.	Fact
The available e-mails exchanged between key employees of the Appellants and also between key employees and top management of UIICL specifically discussed about the booking of premium for RSBY Scheme and sharing of business among the Appellants.	Fact
However, email dumps were not furnished despite various opportunities and such conduct established the complicity of the Appellants in bid rigging.	Fact
7.1 The DG concluded that, it was a case of contravention of Section 3(3)(a) and Section 3(3)(d) of the Act as the Appellants had discussed the bid price for RSBY scheme, decided that UIICL will be L1 and shared the business among themselves in a predetermined ratio, and thereby rigged the bids, which was explicitly prohibited under the Act.	Fact
In his view, this was a case of per se violation of competition laws, presumed to have an appreciable adverse effect on competition and did not require a test of rule of reason to establish the contravention.	Fact
The Commission after receiving the DGs report considered the same and forwarded electronic copies to the Appellants and they were asked to file their response.	Fact
The Appellants filed preliminary objections challenging the DGs report on the ground that it suffered from a fundamental error of failure to consider that all the Appellants being controlled by the same parent i.e Government of India, through the Department of Financial Services (DFS) were part of a single economic entity and hence there could not be any collusion between them under Section 3(3) of the Act.	Fact
The Commission, however, asked the Appellants to file their objections on the merits of the report also.	Fact
The Appellants filed their objections to the main report and the parties were admittedly heard on 14.5.2015 over various aspects including the issue of single economic entity.	Fact
Copies of letter dated 14.5.2015 which was sent by DFS to the office of the DG in another case of investigation against the Public Sector General Insurance Companies, was also submitted to support the position that the Appellants formed part of a single economic entity.	Fact
The Commission has summarized the arguments of the Appellants regarding they being a single economic entity and rejected those in paragraph 23 to 26 of the impugned Order, reproduced below: The Commission notes that OPs have vehemently opposed the DGs findings on the basis that they constitute a single economic entity.	RulingByLowerCourt
OPs have claimed that until 2002, all OPs were owned by General Insurance Company.	RulingByLowerCourt
It was also submitted that pursuant to the enactment of the General Insurance Business (Nationalization) Amendment Act, 2002, Government of India holds 100 shares of each of the OPs and controls the management and affairs of the companies through Department of Financial Services (Insurance Division), Ministry of Finance.	RulingByLowerCourt
To appreciate the issues projected in the present case, it would be appropriate to notice the regulatory reforms that were introduced in the insurance sector.	RulingByLowerCourt
In this regard, a reference may be had to the policy reforms introduced by the Government of India in 1991 which led to the de- regulation of the Indian economy.	RulingByLowerCourt
With the commencement of private participation, a need was felt to modify the existing market structure of certain select sectors, including, the insurance sector so as to promote orderly growth of these sectors.	RulingByLowerCourt
In this regard, the Government of India established a committee in the year 1993 under the chairmanship of Shri N. Malhotra (former Governor of the Reserve Bank of India) to propose reforms for the insurance sector.	RulingByLowerCourt
Pursuant to the recommendations of the Malhotra Committee, two major regulatory changes were introduced, including, ending the monopoly of General Insurance Company in the general insurance business and ending the control exercised by General Insurance Company over its four wholly owned subsidiaries, i.e., the four public sector insurance companies.	RulingByLowerCourt
The Commission notes that these regulatory changes were ushered in to allow the public sector insurance companies to act independently and to compete with the private players to offer better services to consumers.	RulingByLowerCourt
The Commission notes that although the public sector insurance companies are presently under the overall supervision of the Central Government, each of the OPs placed a separate bid in response to the tenders issued by the Government of Kerala for implementation of RSBY CHIS schemes.	RulingByLowerCourt
Further, parties themselves have admitted before the DG that all decisions relating to submission of bids, determination of bid amounts, business sharing arrangements, etc. were taken internally at company level without any ex ante approval directions from Ministry of Finance.	RulingByLowerCourt
Even the decisions taken by the companies were not notified ex post to the Ministry.	RulingByLowerCourt
Thus, it is apparent that the OPs participated in the impugned tenders independent of Ministry of Finance and the DG also did not come across any contra evidence.	RulingByLowerCourt
In view of the above, the Commission notes that the conducts of OPs in relation to the RSBY CHIS tenders issued by the Government of Kerala during the period between 2010-11 and 2012-13 were based on their own volition and the Ministry of Finance had no role to play.	RulingByLowerCourt
On this basis, the Commission holds that the ministry of Finance did not exercise any de facto or de jure control over OPs business decision in submitting bids for impugned tenders.	RulingByLowerCourt
As such, OPs cannot be said to constitute a single economic unit.	RulingByLowerCourt
Accordingly, the Commission rejects OPs claims.	RulingByLowerCourt
8.1 Further, the Commission held that decision of the Appellants in the ICCC meeting dated 7.12.2009 at Kochi, which was the basis for initiating the suo moto case was, implemented by the Appellants.	Fact
The reasons adduced by the Commission to support this finding in paragraphs 34 to 38 of the impugned Order, are as follows: In this regard, the Commission notes the financial bids submitted by the participating bidders in response to the 2009 tender.	RulingByLowerCourt
A comparison of the financial bids submitted by the OPs is set out below: It is clear from the above OPs quoted price bids in accordance with the decision taken in the ICCC meeting held on 7.12.2009.	RulingByLowerCourt
The Commission notes that in line with the decision taken in the ICCC meeting, OP-4 was the L-1 bidder.	RulingByLowerCourt
Further, the Commission notes that it is an admitted fact that OP-4 entered into a business sharing arrangement with other OPs in relation to the 2009 RSBY tender in the manners set out below : Details of Business Sharing Arrangement relating to the Tender dated 08.12.2009 The Commission notes that it is abundantly clear that the decision taken in the ICCC meeting held on 7.12.2009 relating to the business sharing arrangement was actually implemented by OPs and as such the submission made by the OPs that the decision taken during the ICCC meeting was not implemented is factually patently false and incorrect.	RulingByLowerCourt
In view of the above, the Commission concludes that OPs colluded and rigged bids in response to the tender issued by the Government of Kerala.	RulingByLowerCourt
In coming to this conclusion, the Commission relies on (a) minutes of the meeting held by OPs on 7.12.2009 at Kochi (b) the financial bids submitted by OPs prior to finalization of the tender and (c) the business sharing arrangement concluded subsequently after finalization of the tender.	RulingByLowerCourt
The Commission notes that the evidence clearly and unequivocally establishes that not only did the OPs meet one day prior to the submission of bids, they also entered into an anti-competitive agreement to manipulate the tendering process initiated by the Government of Kerala for the implementation of RSBY and CHIS schemes.	RulingByLowerCourt
8.2 The Commission scrutinized the Appellants conduct relating to tenders issued by the Government of Kerala in the year 2011-12 to 2012-13 also and concluded that a clear bidding pattern was evident and in this context tabulated the rate bids of the Appellants in the following table in paragraph 47 of the impugned Order: Details of OPs rates bids in relation to the tenders of 2011-2012 and 2012- 2013 8.3 The Commission supported its finding of clear bidding pattern by noting that in relation to both the tenders- The Appellants had quoted substantially higher premium and no plausible explanation to explain the rise was forthcoming UIICL repeatedly secured the L1 position and entered into business sharing arrangements with, National Insurance Company Limited and New India Assurance Company Limited While the contracts were awarded for a period of three years but UIICL repeatedly invoked the exit clause of the contracts, thereby, forcing the Government of Kerala to initiate re-tendering after completion of the first year of the contract.	RulingByLowerCourt
8.4 The Commission analyzed two internal documents i.e. internal Office Note dated 1.12.2011 of UIICL and internal office note dated 28.12.2011 of OICL in order to examine whether the bidding pattern was an outcome of an anticompetitive agreement.	RulingByLowerCourt
Based on these documents, the Commissions findings were as follow: The Commission is of the opinion that OP-4s office note dated 01.12.2011 clearly demonstrates the public sector insurance companies, i.e., OPs were cartelizing to fix higher insurance premium rates.	RulingByLowerCourt
Relevant extract from the aforementioned office note is set out below : If we exit the scheme CHIAK may go for re-tendering.	RulingByLowerCourt
We may again participate in the process quoting appropriate higher premium jointly with other PSUs.	RulingByLowerCourt
From OP-3s office note dated 28.12.2011, the Commission notes that collective action of the public sector insurance companies is clearly and unequivocally established.	RulingByLowerCourt
For ready reference, the relevant excerpts therefrom are quoted below: After the fresh tender was published, UIICL called for a meeting of all the four PSUs and discussed the reason for the past lossmaking.	RulingByLowerCourt
We participated in the meeting without any commitment to share the premium.	RulingByLowerCourt
In view of the above, the Commission holds that it is clearly borne out from the case records that the OPs were holding meetings prior to submission of bids in response to the tenders issued by the Government of Kerala for the implementation of RSBY and CHIS schemes.	RulingByLowerCourt
This, when viewed together with the past practice in relation to the RSBY CHIS tender dated 08.12.2009 and the bidding pattern exhibited by OPs in relation to the subsequent tenders, singularly point to the only conclusion that the bidders were acting pursuant to an anticompetitive agreement to manipulate the tendering process initiated by the Government of Kerala.	Fact
8.5 The explanations given by the Appellants to explain the alleged agreement based on losses incurred by them as the quantum of claims disbursed outnumbered the quantum of premiums received and the flawed incentive scheme (for hospital staff), were rejected by the Commission in paragraph 55 of the impugned Order with the following findings : 55a reference may be had to the statement made by the representatives of Reliance General Insurance Company Limited, the insurer under the RSBY CHIS tender of 2013-14.	RulingByLowerCourt
The Commission notes that this tender was awarded to Reliance General Insurance Company Limited at an annual premium of Rs. 738/- per family for a period of three years and this contract was renewed for the year 2014-15 at the same price.	RulingByLowerCourt
The Commission also notes that representatives of Reliance General Insurance Company Limited have confirmed that the company is not incurring any losses for providing health insurance services under the RSBY CHIS schemes.	RulingByLowerCourt
On this basis, the Commission holds that the explanations offered by OPs are false assertions.	RulingByLowerCourt
Thus, the agreement amongst OPs to manipulate the tendering process initiated by the Government of Kerala CHIAK for implementation of RSBY and CHIS for the years 2010-11, 2011-12, 2012-13 in accordance with the provisions of Section 2(b) of the Act is clearly and unequivocally established.	RulingByLowerCourt
8.6 The Commission also held that, The entire modus operandi resorted to by OP-4 in concert with the other PSUs to exit from the tender year after year forcing re- tendering and consequent quotation of higher quotation of premium in collusion is a virtual fraud perpetrated upon the State of Kerala with regard to a social welfare scheme which was directed at BPL families.	RulingByLowerCourt
8.7 The Commission concluded that, the conduct of the Appellants had resulted in manipulation of the bidding process, initiated by the Government of Kerala, in contravention of the provision of Section 3(1) read with Section 3(3)(d) of the Act.	RulingByLowerCourt
It held that in the case of agreements listed in Section 3(3) of the Act, it was presumed that the agreement had an appreciable adverse effect on competition and the Appellant could not rebut this presumption as they could not show as to how the impugned conduct resulted into accrual of benefits to consumers or made improvements in production of distribution of services or did not foreclose competition.	RulingByLowerCourt
The Commission, accordingly, ordered the Appellants to cease desist from indulging in anti-competitive practices.	RulingByLowerCourt
Further, the Commission found the case fit for imposition of penalty.	RulingByLowerCourt
It considered the collective, anti-competitive conduct of the Appellant affecting the State of Kerala and the beneficiaries of the RSBY CHIS scheme i.e. BPL and other poor families to be the aggravating circumstances.	RulingByLowerCourt
The peculiarities of the insurance sector which include importance of insurers insolvency for the consumers were considered as mitigating circumstances and a penalty of 2 of the average turnover of the last three financial years was imposed on the Appellants which worked out to Rs. 162.80 crore on NICL, Rs. 251.07 crore on NIACL, Rs. 100.56 crore on OICL and Rs. 156.62 crore on UIICL.	RulingByLowerCourt
Aggrieved by the Order of the Commission, the Appellants have filed separate appeals.	RulingByLowerCourt
Arguments were individually made by the counsels for the four Appellants and though they had different shades in certain aspects, the essential theme was the same.	Fact
On conclusion of the oral arguments, we had permitted the parties to file short written notes vide our Order dated 8.11.2016, which were filed by all the Appellants and the Respondent on 15.11.2016.	Fact
The issues which require determination are as follows: Whether the Appellants were a single economic entity and hence there could not be any agreement in terms of Section 3 of the Act, amongst the companies which were part of the same enterprise, causing appreciable adverse effect on competition 2 .	Issue
Whether the meeting of 7.12.2009 and the conduct of the Appellants in regard to various tenders, evidenced bid rigging in terms of Section 3 of the Act or a co- insurance arrangement 3 .	Issue
Whether the Appellants have any escape from the presumption of bid rigging having appreciable adverse effect on competition 4 .	Issue
Whether Investigation by the DG and the impugned Order of the Commission went beyond the period covered by the Order under Section 26(1) of the Act passed by the Commission 5 .	Issue
Whether the principles of natural justice were violated, vitiating the impugned Order, by non-signing of the order by the Chairman who was present during the deliberation in the Commission Whether finding of the Commission of virtual fraud is valid Whether the penalty was leviable and if so whether the quantum was to be calculated with reference to the total turnover or with reference to the turnover of the transactions relating to bid rigging.	Issue
The provisions of the Act and the General Insurance Business (Nationalization) Act, 1972,(GIBNA) which are relevant for adjudicating the aforesaid issues, are extracted below: The Competition Act, 2002 Section 2 Definitions - In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, - (b) agreement includes any arrangement or understanding or action in concert, - whether or not, such arrangement, understanding or action is formal or in writing or whether or not such arrangement, understanding or action is intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings (h) enterprise means a person or a department of the Government, who or which is, or has been, engaged in any activity, relating to the production, storage, supply, distribution, acquisition or control of articles or goods, or the provision of services, of any kind, or in investment, or in the business of acquiring, holding, underwriting or dealing with shares, debentures or other securities of any other body corporate, either directly or through one or more of its units or divisions or subsidiaries, whether such unit or division or subsidiary is located at the same place where the enterprise is located or at a different place or at different places, but does not include any activity of the Government relatable to the sovereign functions of the Government including all activities carried on by the departments of the Central Government dealing with atomic energy, currency, defence and space.	Statute
Explanation - For the purposes of this clause, - a) activity includes profession or occupation b) article includes a new article and service includes a new service c) unit or division, in relation to an enterprise, includes - a plant or factory established for the production, storage, supply, distribution, acquisition or control of any article or goods any branch or office established for the provision of any service (l) person includes- an individual a Hindu undivided family a company a firm an association of persons or a body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, in India or outside India any corporation established by or under any Central, State or Provincial Act or a Government company as defined in section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) any body corporate incorporated by or under the laws of a country outside India a co-operative society registered under any law relating to cooperative societies a local authority every artificial juridical person, not falling within any of the preceding sub-clauses (z) words and expressions used but not defined in this Act and defined in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) shall have the same meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act.	Statute
Section 3 Anti-competitive agreements - No enterprise or association of enterprises or person or association of persons shall enter into any agreement in respect of production, supply, distribution, storage, acquisition or control of goods or provision of services, which causes or is likely to cause an appreciable adverse effect on competition within India.	Statute
Any agreement entered into in contravention of the provisions contained in subsection (1) shall be void.	Statute
Any agreement entered into between enterprises or associations of enterprises or persons or associations of persons or between any person and enterprise or practice carried on, or decision taken by, any association of enterprises or association of persons, including cartels, engaged in identical or similar trade of goods or provision of services, which- (a) directly or indirectly determines purchase or sale prices (b) limits or controls production, supply, markets, technical development, investment or provision of services (c) shares the market or source of production or provision of services by way of allocation of geographical area of market, or type of goods or services, or number of customers in the market or any other similar way (d) directly or indirectly results in bid rigging or collusive bidding, shall be presumed to have an appreciable adverse effect on competition: Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall apply to any agreement entered into by way of joint ventures if such agreement increases efficiency in production, supply, distribution, storage, acquisition or control of goods or provision of services.	Statute
Explanation - For the purposes of this sub-section, bid rigging means any agreement, between enterprises or persons referred to in sub-section (3) engaged in identical or similar production or trading of goods or provision of services, which has the effect of eliminating or reducing competition for bids or adversely affecting or manipulating the process for bidding Section 4 Abuse of dominant position - No enterprise or group shall abuse its dominant position.	Statute
General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act, 1972 Section 18 - Functions of Corporation.	Statute
The functions of the Corporation shall include (a) the carrying on of any part of the general insurance business, if it thinks it desirable to do so (b) aiding, assisting and advising the acquiring companies in the matter of setting up of standards of conduct and sound practice in general insurance business and in the matter of rendering efficient service to holders of policies of general insurance (c) advising the acquiring companies in the matter of controlling their expenses including the payment of commission and other expenses (d) advising the acquiring companies in the matter of the investment of their funds (e) issuing directions to acquiring companies in relation to the conduct of general insurance business: Provided that all the functions of the Corporation specified in this sub-section, on and from the commencement of the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Act, 2002, shall be performed by the Central Government.	Statute
In issuing any directions under sub-section (1), Central Government shall keep in mind the desirability of encouraging competition amongst the acquiring companies as far as possible in order to render their services more efficient.	Statute
Section 19 - Functions of acquiring companies.	Statute
Subject to the rules, if any, made by the Central Government in this behalf and to its memorandum and articles of association, it shall be the duty of every acquiring company to carry on general insurance business.	Statute
Each acquiring company shall so function under this Act as to secure that general insurance business is developed to the best advantage of the community.	Statute
In the discharge of any of its functions, each acquiring company shall act so far as may be on business principles and where any directions have been issued by the Central Government or the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority established under sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 41 of 199 shall be guided by such directions.	Statute
For the removal of doubt it is hereby declared that the Corporation and any acquiring company may, subject to the rules, if any, made by the Central Government in this behalf, enter into such contracts of re-insurance or reinsurance treaties as it may think fit for the protection of its interests.	Statute
Section 10A - Transfer to Central Government of shares vested in Corporation- All the shares in the capital of the acquiring companies, being - (a) the National Insurance Company Limited (b) the New India Assurance Company Limited (c) the Oriental Insurance Company Limited (d) the United India Insurance Company Limited, and vested in the Corporation before the commencement of the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Act, 2002 shall, on such commencement, stand transferred to the Central Government.	Statute
Section 24A - Exclusive privilege of Corporation and acquiring companies to cease.	Statute
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the exclusive privilege of the Corporation and the acquiring companies of carrying on general insurance business in India shall cease on and from the commencement of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999 and the Corporation and the acquiring companies shall, thereafter, carry on general insurance business in India in accordance with the provisions of the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938).	Statute
Provided that the Corporation shall, on and from the commencement of the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Act, 2002, cease to carry on general insurance business.	Statute
The issues listed in paragraph 10 above are adjudicated in seriatim in the following paragraphs.	None
12.1 The crux of the defense of the Appellants in regard to issue at no (i) is that they constituted a single economic entity, and because bid rigging under Section 3 of the Act required agreement between enterprises, any agreement between parts of the same enterprise would not be an anti-competitive agreement.	ArgumentPetitioner
The premise canvassed was that, the statutory scheme governing the Appellant established that they constituted a single economic entity, operated and controlled by the Insurance Division of DFS, Government of India, and the following arguments were made in support thereof : The Central Government held 100 of the shares of the Appellants and, therefore, had decisive control over them.	ArgumentPetitioner
The Central Government under Article 77 of the Constitution of India allocates business to various ministries.	ArgumentPetitioner
Ministries in turn allocate work to their various departments which execute business either directly or through their instrumentalities like the Appellants in the present case.	ArgumentPetitioner
Various provisions of GIBNA make it clear that apart from the corporate control, the Government of India, has statutory control over the Appellants and therefore there can be no dispute that they constituted a single economic enterprise.	ArgumentPetitioner
GIBNA was enacted for securing the development of general insurance business for the best interest of the community and to ensure that the operation of the economic system did not result in concentration of wealth to the common detriment, as postulated in Article 39(c) of the Constitution of India.	RatioOfTheDecision
This intention was reflected in the Preamble and the declaration of the policy under Section 2 of GIBNA.	ArgumentPetitioner
Section 2 of the GIBNA makes it clear that the Appellants were actually carrying out the obligation of the State for serving a social welfare scheme, and no penalty could be levied upon the Government Companies for implementing the scheme of the Government to carry out obligations cast on the State under Article 39 of the Constitution of India.	ArgumentPetitioner
Sections 4, 9,10 and 10A of GIBNA describe how 107 insurance companies were merged together to form the present day four Appellants.	ArgumentPetitioner
100 shares were taken over first by the Government of India and then they were vested in General Insurance Corporation (GIC) and later by an Amendment Act of 2002, the said shares were re-vested in the Government of India.	ArgumentPetitioner
Section 10A was added to the GIBNA for the aforesaid purpose.	ArgumentPetitioner
Since Government of India stepped into the shoes of GIC, the superintending, controlling and carrying on the business of general insurance referred to in Section 9(1) of the GIBNA was then carried out by the Government of India through DFS.	ArgumentPetitioner
Section 18(1) and 18(2) are further illustrative of the fact that functions of GIC were taken over by the Government of India, which through DFS now issues directions to Appellants in relation to the conduct of general insurance business.	ArgumentPetitioner
Government issued instructions towards business strategies and in fact forbade Appellants from entering into unhealthy competition or to undercut each other, as was evident from various circulars and letters listed below:- The minutes of the meeting taken by the Secretary, Financial Services on 25th January, 2010 regarding the review of the performance of the Appellants particularly in para 3, as extracted below, prove the decisive influence :- Secretary (FS) felt that the performance of the companies is worrisome and underwriting losses are mounting.	ArgumentPetitioner
He observed that the companies are bitterly competing among themselves and are drifting from their aims.	ArgumentPetitioner
There are problems in the banking industry also but the problems in the working of general insurance companies are graver and the Ministry is worried about this.	ArgumentPetitioner
He called upon the companies to continuously devise and launch new products to match the demands of the insuring community on one hand and, on the other hand, formulate new strategies to compete with private players.	ArgumentPetitioner
He also exhorted the Companies to give requisite impetus to IT implementation plans.	ArgumentPetitioner
Especially relevant in this regard were strategy direction dated 24.5.12 with the following statements: At a time, when there is a financial strain on these Companies on account of abolition of motor pool shifting to declined motor pool and other factors, the Public Sector Insurance Companies to be incurring losses to an extent of Rs. 1500 crores and above every year on Group Health Insurance policies is totally unacceptable.	ArgumentPetitioner
This is especially when the total dividend declared by these Companies during 2010-11 was only Rs. 30 crores.	ArgumentPetitioner
A closer examination of these losses and a relative comparison with the private sector, it is clear that that these losses are due to the lack of prudent underwriting and a very unhealthy and self-destructive inter-company competition among these four Companies.	ArgumentPetitioner
Heavy discounts are being offered on premiums, so as to snatch the business from the other Public Sector Undertaking Companies.	ArgumentPetitioner
Such unhealthy competition has led to a state where premiums for Group Health Insurance policies are settling down to a very low level and such policies become loss making the very moment they are underwritten.	ArgumentPetitioner
Health insurance is one of the most important upcoming segment in the non- life sector and the business in Health Insurance is only going to grow up in coming years.	ArgumentPetitioner
While the desire to increase the GDPI by underwriting new premium policies including those in the Health Insurance business is understandable, this cannot be done by seriously compromising the bottom line.	ArgumentPetitioner
Growth in premiums portfolio cannot be at the expense of the bottom line and would make the entire Health Insurance Sector unviable in the long run.	ArgumentPetitioner
It is, therefore, necessary that a proper mechanism be put in place whereby an appropriate pricing mechanism for pricing Group Health Insurance is adopted which takes into consideration the existing ICR, management expenses, medical inflation, commissions, likely increase in the quantum of claims due to ageing of the covered group, cost of underwriting the business and other such associated factors.	ArgumentPetitioner
All such instructions were issued with a warning that deviation would be viewed seriously.	ArgumentPetitioner
Government of India acted as a single parent head and had control over the activities of the Appellants.	ArgumentPetitioner
Minutes of the Review dated 10.1.2007 of performance of the Appellants by the Finance Minister reproduced below evidenced the influence of the Government Ministry of Finance Sub: Performance of Public Sector Insurance Companies and GIC On the basis of the performance review done on 10th January, 2007, I set down below some thoughts and points for action.	ArgumentPetitioner
Overall, I am disappointed with the performance of the Public Sector Insurance Companies (PSICs) as well as GIC.	ArgumentPetitioner
Because they have been monopolies for nearly 30 years, they have been under no pressure to perform.	ArgumentPetitioner
As a result, total business, insurance penetration, premium as a percentage of GDP, per capita premium and all other parameters are extremely low compared to international bench mark standards.	ArgumentPetitioner
My overall impression is that PSICs have not reflected on any plan for growth, for example, none of them seems to have Vision 2020 or Vision 2025 statement or a similar ambitious goal programme.	ArgumentPetitioner
The first thing each PSIC should do is to get the top management together for a two-day brain storming session and work on Vision 2020 or a Vision 2025 statement programme.	ArgumentPetitioner
They have not focused on insurance penetration measured by the number of policies issued.	ArgumentPetitioner
Homes, properties, motor vehicles, factories, machinery etc.	ArgumentPetitioner
deserve to be insured.	ArgumentPetitioner
The spread of health insurance is a significant pointer to development.	ArgumentPetitioner
Therefore, the number of policies issued by each PSIC is indeed a measure of performance.	ArgumentPetitioner
This must be suitably reflected in the new SOI from 2007-2008 onwards.	ArgumentPetitioner
The employee strength of PSICs is extremely high.	ArgumentPetitioner
This is a legacy issue.	ArgumentPetitioner
Because of huge recruitment in the mid 1980s the present date of attrition is low.	ArgumentPetitioner
Issue that needs to be addressed by the PSICs.	ArgumentPetitioner
There is a huge backlog in suit claims and non-suit claims.	ArgumentPetitioner
Every year, a larger number of suit claims and non- suit claims are filed.	ArgumentPetitioner
The number of claims settled in each year should be more than the new claims filed each year, otherwise, they backlog will never be liquidated.	ArgumentPetitioner
So far as suit claims are concerned, PSICS must review their panels of lawyers, the performance of each lawyer measured by the number of cases disposed of and put in place a system where more suits are heard and decided by the Tribunals.	ArgumentPetitioner
In addition, they must examine the possibility of settling up Adalats to dispose of these claims.	ArgumentPetitioner
If they approach the Chief Justice of the High Court concerned, he she would direct the Judge Incharge of the Lok Adalats and Adalats could be held in every district and a large number of MACT cases could be disposed of.	ArgumentPetitioner
As regards non-suit claims, perhaps there is reluctance on the part of the individual manager to settle these claims.	ArgumentPetitioner
An alternative course would be to constitute 2/3 member teams which will go around the districts, fix dates for settlement, hear the parties and settle as many claims as possible on the spot.	ArgumentPetitioner
In conclusion, I would advise them to make a determined effort to liquidate the backlog and work out a time frame for doing so.	ArgumentPetitioner
There are huge disparities in the technologies employed in the four PSICs.	ArgumentPetitioner
The main indicators of technology adoption may be listed and the progress made by each of the four PSICs against each indicator may be graded on a scale of 0 to 10 (zero means no beginning and 10 means full achievement).	ArgumentPetitioner
Thereafter, each PSIC must work out a timeframe by which it will achieve 10 points against each technology indicator parameter.	ArgumentPetitioner
PSICs must begin work on dematerializing insurance policies.	ArgumentPetitioner
A suitable date may be fixed in the financial year 2007-08 (say, 1st October, 2007) with effect from which only dematerialized policies will be issued.	ArgumentPetitioner
All old (material) policies should be dematerialized over a period of time.	ArgumentPetitioner
Treasury management of PSICs is extremely poor.	ArgumentPetitioner
It is possible that the PSICs are extremely conservative.	ArgumentPetitioner
It is also possible that they do not have adequate expertise in this behalf.	ArgumentPetitioner
Treasury management must be strengthened, experts must be appointed and treasury management should aim to maximize profits.	ArgumentPetitioner
On health insurance, I take a very strong view on the non-performance of three of the four PSICs.	ArgumentPetitioner
There is no reason why one PSIC should be able to show good progress while the remaining three PSICs are non-starters.	ArgumentPetitioner
Within four weeks from today, each of them should submit a time frame on how they will show progress on the matter of issuing more policies under universal health insurance scheme.	ArgumentPetitioner
As regards, GSIC, there are several issues.	ArgumentPetitioner
It is over manned, it has survived on mandatory ceded insurance and is under no pressure to perform.	ArgumentPetitioner
GSIC should also present Vision 2020 or a Vision 2025 plan as soon as possible.	ArgumentPetitioner
Sd - Chidambaram) Finance Minister 11.01.2007 SECRETARY (FS) Control has to be seen from 100 shareholding and from facts and circumstances and instruction for each transaction to flow from the parent, was not required.	ArgumentPetitioner
Letter of DFS dated 14.5.15 confirmed the factual position of instruction being issued by the Government.	ArgumentPetitioner
Transfer and postings of the officers inter se among the Appellants took place routinely under the directions of DFS, in terms of Section 22 of the GIBNA.	ArgumentPetitioner
The Appellants were State under Article 12 of the Constitution and participation in health insurance scheme, irrespective of the losses suffered, was in discharge of mandatory obligations under the Constitution and could not be considered as a conspiracy.	ArgumentPetitioner
The fact of Appellants implementing the social sector schemes of the Government was noted in all the Annual Reports tabled by the Ministry of Finance in Parliament and special reference be made to Annual Report for the year 2008-2009 which recorded participation by the Appellants in Universal Health Insurance Schemes.	ArgumentPetitioner
Annual Report for the year 2012-2013 took a stock of operational losses in general by the Appellants and noted that the Government had issued advisory to the companies to formulate strategy to be adopted by the companies in order to improve upon the pricing of these products viz. Health, Fire and Motor insurance It was, therefore evident that as a single parent head the Department of Financial Services, Ministry of Finance was very much in control over the operational aspects of the companies and it reviewed their performance from time to time.	ArgumentPetitioner
It took note of the losses, it informed the Parliament about the same and also issued advisories for improving the said positions.	ArgumentPetitioner
Finding of the Tribunal in the case of Wing Cdr.	ArgumentPetitioner
(Retd.) Dr. Biswanath Prasad Singh v. Director General of Health Services (DGHS) (Appeal Number 63 of 2014), as extracted below was equally applicable to the case of the Appellant.	ArgumentPetitioner
CGHS is clearly an enterprise which provides healthcare services to the target group and in order to do so, in view of the constraints on its capacity, it laterally complements its resources by empaneling hospitals which include private hospitals as well The European Commission in its Guidelines on the applicability of Article 101 of the Treaty on the functioning of the European Union to horizontal co- operation agreements (Ref.	ArgumentPetitioner
Number 2011/C11/01) has laid down that: Companies that form part of the same undertaking within the meaning of Article 101(1) are not considered to be competitors for the purposes of these guidelines.	ArgumentPetitioner
Article 101 only applies to agreements between independent undertakings.	ArgumentPetitioner
When a company exercises decisive influence over another company they form a single economic entity and, hence, are part of the same undertaking.	ArgumentPetitioner
The same is true for sister companies, that is to say, companies over which decisive influence is exercised by the same parent company.	ArgumentPetitioner
They are consequently not considered to be competitors even if they are both active on the same relevant product and geographic markets.	ArgumentPetitioner
The Appellants, under the decisive influence of DFS, were single economic entity.	ArgumentPetitioner
The concept of single economic entity as applied to the private players in the order of the Competition Appellate Tribunal in the case of Exclusive Motors Pvt.	ArgumentPetitioner
Limited v. Automobile Lamborgini, SPA Ors.	ArgumentPetitioner
 should also be applied to the Appellants as they were under the shadow of their 100 shareholder which controlled all aspects of their functioning.	ArgumentPetitioner
DFS held an all pervasive decisive influence over the functioning of the PSGICs and therefore they were part of the same enterprise.	ArgumentPetitioner
The rationale applied to confirm single economic entity in international jurisprudence viz American Needle Inc. v. National Football League  : 560 U.S. 183 (2010, Case Number COMP M.6113-DSM SINOCHEM JV.	ArgumentPetitioner
of the European Union, Consten and Grundig Case 56 1966 ECR 299, of the European Court of Justice, Case T- 102/92, Viho Europe BV v. Commission 1995 ECR II-117, Case C-73/95 P, Viho Europe BV v. Commission 1996 ECR 1-5457,S V v. Commission 1992 ECR-II 1403, UAB Milsa and UAB Torita of the Lithuanian Competition Council, supported the case of the Appellant.	ArgumentPetitioner
1 2 . 2 Another facet of a single economic entity presented by Shri Krishnan Venugopal, Learned Senior Counsel for the Oriental Insurance company was that DFS was engaged in providing general insurance services through the Appellants, and DFS together with the Appellants formed a single enterprise and therefore, the Commission was bereft of jurisdiction under Section 3 of the Act because there could not be a prohibited agreement between persons who were part of a single enterprise.	ArgumentPetitioner
Following arguments were advanced in support of this proposition: Article 39(c) of the Constitution read together with GIBNA and the Articles of Association of the Appellants clearly established that the Central Government through the DFS was providing general insurance services through the Appellants.	ArgumentPetitioner
The term subsidiary in Section 2(h) of the Act had to be construed as including companies that were wholly owned and controlled by the Central Government.	ArgumentPetitioner
GIBNA nationalized the entire general insurance business and vested it with the Central Government.	ArgumentPetitioner
Section 2 of GIBNA expressly declared that it was for giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing the principles specified in Article 39(c) of the Constitution i.e The State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securingthat the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and the means of production to the common detriment It was, therefore, that the Central Government, as the State for the purposes of the Directive Principles of State Policy in part IV of the Constitution had been entrusted with the provision of general insurance services throughout India through its instrumentalities, namely, the Appellants.	ArgumentPetitioner
The Appellants were State under Article 12 of the Constitution as held in the case of United Insurance Company Limited v. Manubhaidharamsinhbhai Gajera  : (2008)10 SCC 404 and also State under Article 36 of the Constitution for the purposes of the Directive Principles of State Policy.	ArgumentPetitioner
Various provisions of GIBNA confirmed the conclusion that the Central Government which provided general insurance services through the Appellants : section 16(2) provided that only four companies would remain and that they would be so situated as to render their combined services effective across India Under section 18(1), as amended in 2002, the Central Government could not only directly carry on any part of the general insurance as it considered desirable, its functions in relation to the Appellants included: aid, advise and assistance to the acquiring companies in setting up standards of conduct and sound practice in general insurance business and in rendering efficient services to holders advice in controlling expenses advice in investing funds and issuing directions in relation to the conduct of general insurance business.	ArgumentPetitioner
Under Section 17A, the Central Government could regulate the terms and conditions of service of officers of the GIC and of all acquiring companies Under Section 22, the Central Government had the power to transfer employees among the Appellant Insurance Companies as it chooses The Articles of Association of the four Appellants further reinforced the conclusion that the Central Government wholly owned and controlled the Appellants.	ArgumentPetitioner
Not only does the Central Government appoint the Directors and the Chairmen and Managing Directors of the Appellant Insurance Companies, it can also remove them, fill vacancies, etc.	ArgumentPetitioner
Section 18(2) of GIBNA is for the Central Government to keep in view, but that cannot vest Commission with jurisdiction under Section 3 of the Act because there could not be a prohibited agreement between persons who were part of a single enterprise.	ArgumentPetitioner
Section 2 of the Act must be read by applying principles of statutory interpretation such as (a) purposive interpretation in light of the mischief rule (b) an interpretation to make a provision effective and operative.	ArgumentPetitioner
The interpretation of the term enterprise in section 2(h) of the Act, by the Commission would result in (a) fastening a charge of cartelization on Government companies or corporations involved in producing the same goods or providing the same services where they were under the control of the same department of Government, (b) immunizing departments of the Government that control multiple companies in producing the same product or providing the same service, from allegations of abuse of dominance under Section 4 of the Act because these would not be considered as enterprise for the purposes of section 4 of the Act, thereby frustrating the intent of the Act, of, inter alia, countering the mischief of dominance of the public sector.	ArgumentPetitioner
3 Shri Rajshekhar Rao, Advocate for the Commission made the following arguments to rebut the contention of a single economic entity: Statement of objects and reasons to the GIBNA clearly stated the intent in regard to creation of the Appellants being as only four companies, so situated as to promote competition between them so that effective services in the field of general insurance may be rendered by them in all parts of India.	ArgumentRespondent
(emphasis supplied) Section 18(2) of GIBNA statutorily mandates the encouragement of competition to the extent possible and if the four Appellants were part of a single economic entity, then even the possibility of competition could not exist.	ArgumentRespondent
Section 19(3) of GIBNA in mandating the Appellants to act so far as may be on business principles makes it even more untenable to assert that the Appellants could be exempted from the rigors of Section 3 of the Act, particularly when there were no governmental directions to this effect.	ArgumentRespondent
An inevitable extension of accepting the arguments of single economic entity would be the removal of the entire public sector from the reach of Section 3 of the Act, a result incompatible with the fundamental scheme of the Act, particularly when viewed in the light of legislative history under the Monopolies Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969.	ArgumentRespondent
In order to consider the arguments of the Appellants and the Respondent in regard to the single economic entity, it is necessary to first note the legal structure of the Appellants and the statutory framework in the form of GIBNA impacting their operations.	RatioOfTheDecision
Its an admitted position that the Appellants are Companies, with each of them having separate Memorandum and Articles of Association.	RatioOfTheDecision
Appellants were in existence when the nationalisation of general insurance business was effected through GIBNA in 1972.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Preamble to GIBNA reads as follows: An Act to provide for the acquisition and transfer of shares of Indian insurance companies and undertakings of other existing insurers in order to serve better the needs of the economy by securing the development of general insurance business in the best interests of the community and to ensure that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth to the common detriment, for the regulation and control of such business and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.	RatioOfTheDecision
13.1 Intent of GIBNA as stated in the Preamble is reiterated in Section 2 of the said Act which declares that the said Act is to give effect to the policy of the State towards securing the principles specified in clause (c) of Article 39 of the Constitution.	RatioOfTheDecision
Article 39(c) which figures under Chapter IV titled Directive Principles of State Policy directs that the State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and the means of production to the common detriment.	RatioOfTheDecision
So the GIBNA targeted concentration of wealth, and in terms of the Preamble aimed to get the insurers serve better the need of the economy and develop general insurance business in the best interests of the community.	RatioOfTheDecision
In terms of Section 4 of GIBNA the shares of every existing Insurance company were transferred to the Central Government and Section 10 of GIBNA provided the transfer of these shares to GIC on its formation under the Companies Act.	RatioOfTheDecision
Section 16(1) of GIBNA, vested the Central Government with the power to frame one or more schemes for merger of existing companies with a rider under Section 16(2) of GIBNA, that In framing schemes under sub-section (1), the object of the Central Government shall be to ensure that ultimately there are only four companies (excluding the Corporation) in existence and that they are so situate as to render their combined services effective in all parts of India.	RatioOfTheDecision
In terms of Section 18(1) of GIBNA, GIC could carry on general insurance business, and its functions included aiding, assisting, advising and issuing directions to the acquiring companies i.e the Appellants, in the matters listed in clauses (b) to (e) of the said Section.	RatioOfTheDecision
13.2 This signified that the legislative intent was that the Central Government was not to engage in insurance business itself and such business was to be carried on by GIC and its four subsidiaries i.e the Appellants.	RatioOfTheDecision
No Department of the Central Government was authorized to engage in insurance business.	RatioOfTheDecision
The General Insurance Business(Nationalisation) Amendment Act, 2002, divested GIC of its shareholding of the Appellants and transferred that to the Central Government through insertion of Section 10A in GIBNA and also inserted a Proviso to Section 18(1) of GIBNA whereby functions of GIC as enumerated under Section 18(1) of GIBNA were to be performed by the Central Government.	RatioOfTheDecision
Therefore, by virtue of this amendment, Central Government could if it so desire, carry on general insurance business in terms of Section 18(1)(a) of GIBNA and also had to perform the functions of aiding, assisting, advising and issuing directions to the acquiring companies i.e the Appellants in terms of Section 18(1) (b) to 18(1)(e) of GIBNA.	RatioOfTheDecision
1 3 .3 So in terms of Section 18(1) of GIBNA, the Central Government and the Appellants are distinct and separate entities.	RatioOfTheDecision
Central Government can independently do insurance business and the Appellants have a separate right to do insurance business.	RatioOfTheDecision
This is further reinforced by Section 18(2) of GIBNA, which circumscribes the powers of Central Government to issue directions and Section 19 of GIBNA, which lists functions of the Appellants and requires the Appellants to be guided by the directions issued by the Central Government or the IRDA and Section 23 of GIBNA, which vests Central Government to issue directions in matters of policy involving public interest.	RatioOfTheDecision
Therefore, DFS which is the part of the Ministry of Finance discharging functions of the Central Government, is separated by a statutory wall from the Appellants.	RatioOfTheDecision
13.4 The statutory scheme also enunciates the applicability of business principles in the operations of the Appellants, including the need of competition among the Appellants, demolishing their claim of a single economic entity.	RatioOfTheDecision
As pointed out by the counsel for the Commission, the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the GIBNA, inter alia, stated that only four companies, so situated as to promote competition between them so that effective services in the field of general insurance may be rendered by them in all parts of India.	RatioOfTheDecision
(emphasis supplied).	RatioOfTheDecision
13.5 The reason for creating four companies by the process of mergers, as indicated above was to encourage competition, which was reinforced in Section 18(2) of GIBNA which mandated Central Government to keep in mind the desirability of encouraging competition amongst the Appellants, while issuing directions in order to render their services more efficient.	RatioOfTheDecision
This is a statutory recognition of the principle that competition among the Appellants would promote efficiency and is in sync with the Statement of Objects and Reasons of GIBNA (ibid).	RatioOfTheDecision
Further, Section 19(2) and 19(3) of the GIBNA, directs the Appellants to secure that general insurance business is developed to the best advantage of the community and to act so far as may be on business principles.	RatioOfTheDecision
Business principles include competition, and confirm the legislative intent to stimulate efficiency in public interest, through competition amongst the Appellants.	RatioOfTheDecision
The acknowledgment of need for competition is manifest in the very fact that instead of merging all the companies under one entity with various units or divisions, the legislature created a structure of 4 companies.	RatioOfTheDecision
13.6 The argument that Appellants would constitute economically a single entity since DFS exercised control over each of the Appellants, through issue of letters regarding operational matters, review of their performance, transfer and posting of officers, appointment of Directors etc.	RatioOfTheDecision
has no force.	RatioOfTheDecision
DFS is not engaged in the business of insurance, though as stated earlier, the GIBNA authorized Central Government after the 2002 amendment to carry on insurance business.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Appellants, therefore, cannot economically form a single entity with DFS, which is not engaged in any commercial activity.	RatioOfTheDecision
They are not under each others influence and do not hold any management or shareholder position in each other.	RatioOfTheDecision
The influence, if any, of the DFS does not detract from the independent, commercially and economically separate status of each of the Appellant, who as per GIBNA owe their separate existence to the need to compete in interest of efficiency.	RatioOfTheDecision
In fact, the letter of DFS dated 14.5.2015 on which strong reliance was placed to assert the confirmation by the Government of exercising decisive influence and hence supporting single economic entity proposition, specifically apprised the Commission that the advisories were not to undermine competition, in the following words: Therefore, although the advisories referred to in your aforementioned letter are towards regulating the operational activities of the four Public Sector General Insurance Companies (PSGICs) the same were sent out with a view to protect and safeguard them against any imprudent business action, and achieving the above objective of the Government.	RatioOfTheDecision
It is also pertinent to mention here that these advisories are consistent with regulations issued by the Sector Regulator (IRDAI) from time to time in the area of health insurance and are not intended to undermine and do not undermine the healthy, fair and competitive functioning of the sector.	RatioOfTheDecision
The advisories issued by this Department vide letter dated 24.05.2012 to the four PSGICs are a part of our efforts as discussed in the preceding paragraphs.	RatioOfTheDecision
The said advisories do not affect competition in the market in any manner, which the Government of India, through its own legislation, wishes to protect and promote amongst business enterprises.	RatioOfTheDecision
(emphasis supplied) 13.7 Further, the definition of enterprise under Section 2(h) of the Act, which is an exhaustive definition, stipulates that enterprise is a person or a department of Government engaged in the stated activities either directly or through one or more of its units, or divisions or subsidiaries.	RatioOfTheDecision
Each of the Appellant is directly engaged in the activities of providing insurance services.	RatioOfTheDecision
It is not the argument that they are each others unit, division or subsidiary.	RatioOfTheDecision
So every Appellant is an enterprise under Section 2(h) of the Act, and an aggregation of persons operating independently of each other, cannot be characterized as an enterprise.	RatioOfTheDecision
Therefore, any agreement between them is an agreement between enterprises.	RatioOfTheDecision
13.8 We have in paragraph 13.3 of this Order given reasons as to why DFS, in view of the provisions of GIBNA cannot be considered as directly engaged in providing insurance services.	RatioOfTheDecision
We also see no force in the argument of Sh.	RatioOfTheDecision
Krishnan Venugopal, Learned Senior Counsel for the Oriental Insurance Company Limited that DFS was engaged in providing insurance services, through its subsidiaries and hence was an enterprise, for the purposes of Section 2(h) of the Act.	RatioOfTheDecision
The definition of enterprise in Section 2(h) of the Act does not support his claim because DFS which is a department of the Government is neither engaged in insurance business directly nor can it engage in such activities through subsidiaries.	RatioOfTheDecision
Appellants cannot be considered as subsidiaries of DFS as the expression subsidiaries not having been defined in the Act, has to take its meaning from the Companies Act because Section 2(z) of the Act, requires that the words and expressions used but not defined in the Act and defined in the Companies Act, shall have the same meaning as assigned in that Act.	RatioOfTheDecision
The definition of subsidiary in the Companies Act, 1956 (which was applicable for the period of tenders) is as follows: MEANING OF HOLDING COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY For the purposes of this Act, a company shall, subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), be deemed to be a subsidiary of another if, but only if, - (a) that other controls the composition of its Board of directors or (b) that other - where the first-mentioned company is an existing company in respect of which the holders of preference shares issued before the commencement of this Act have the same voting rights in all respects as the holders of equity shares, exercises or controls more than half of the total voting power of such company where the first-mentioned company is any other company, holds more than half in nominal value of its equity share capital or (c) the first-mentioned company is a subsidiary of any company which is that others subsidiary.	Statute
ILLUSTRATION For the purposes of sub-section (1), the composition of a companys Board of directors shall be deemed to be controlled by another company if, but only if, that other company by the exercise of some power exercisable by it at its discretion without the consent or concurrence of any other person, can appoint or remove the holders of all or a majority of the directorships but for the purposes of this provision that other company shall be deemed to have power to appoint to a directorship with respect to which any of the following conditions is satisfied, that is to say - (a) that a person cannot be appointed thereto without the exercise in his favour by that other company of such a power as aforesaid (b) that a persons appointment thereto follows necessarily from his appointment as director or manager of, or to any other office or employment in, that other company or (c) that the directorship is held by an individual nominated by that other company or a subsidiary thereof.	Statute
In determining whether one company is a subsidiary of another - (a) any shares held or power exercisable by that other company in a fiduciary capacity shall be treated as not held or exercisable by it (b) subject to the provisions of clauses (c) and (d), any shares held or power exercisable - by any person as a nominee for that other company (except where that other is concerned only in a fiduciary capacity) or by, or by a nominee for, a subsidiary of that other company, not being a subsidiary which is concerned only in a fiduciary capacity, shall be treated as held or exercisable by that other company (c) any shares held or power exercisable by any person by virtue of the provisions of any debentures of the first- mentioned company or of a trust deed for securing any issue of such debentures shall be disregarded (d) any shares held or power exercisable by, or by a nominee for, that other or its subsidiary not being held or exercisable as mentioned in clause (c) shall be treated as not held or exercisable by that other, if the ordinary business of that other or its subsidiary, as the case may be, includes the lending of money and the shares are held or the power is exercisable as aforesaid by way of security only for the purposes of a transaction entered into in the ordinary course of that business.	Statute
For the purposes of this Act, a company shall be deemed to be the holding company of another if, but only if, that other is its subsidiary.	Statute
In this section, the expression company includes anybody corporate, and the expression equity share capital has the same meaning as in sub- section (2) of section 85.	Statute
In the case of a body corporate which is incorporated in a country outside India, a subsidiary or holding company of the body corporate under the law of such country shall be deemed to be a subsidiary or holding company of the body corporate within the meaning and for the purposes of this Act also, whether the requirements of this section are fulfilled or not.	Statute
A private company, being a subsidiary of a body corporate incorporated outside India, which, if incorporated in India, would be a public company within the meaning of this Act, shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act to be a subsidiary of a public company if the entire share capital in that private company is not held by that body corporate whether alone or together with one or more other bodies corporate incorporated outside India.	Statute
9 Subsidiary status is available only to companies or a body corporate.	RatioOfTheDecision
A department of the Government is neither a company nor a body corporate, and by its very nature cannot have subsidiaries.	RatioOfTheDecision
Any extended or altered meaning of the term subsidiary will mean a departure from the clear language of law under Section 2(h) read with Section 2(z) of the Act.	RatioOfTheDecision
Purposive rule and Mischief rule of interpretation cited by the counsel are not applicable in this case as these aids to interpretation of a statute are deployed where the language is unclear, ambiguous and the interpretation canvassed would support intent of the legislature and curb the mischief that was sought to be corrected through the new legislation replacing an earlier legislation.	RatioOfTheDecision
In the present case, the legislative history in relation to the MRTP Act and the background in which the Competition Act replaced the MRTP Act validate the proposition that except for the activities of the Government relatable to sovereign functions and activities of the departments of the Central Government specifically listed in Section 2(h) of the Act, activities of public sector will be subjected to the discipline of competition law.	RatioOfTheDecision
We do not agree that a literal interpretation of the word Subsidiaries be discarded in favour of an interpretation which would make public sector undertakings immune from the charge of cartelization.	RatioOfTheDecision
Further, we find no force in the argument that if the term enterprise in not to include the department aggregated with the public sector enterprise that it controls, then Section 4 of the Act has no force.	RatioOfTheDecision
Section 4 of the Act prohibits abuse of dominant position by enterprise or group.	RatioOfTheDecision
An enterprise as defined in Section 2(h) of the Act means a person or a department of the Government and person as defined in Section 2 of the Act (l) includes individuals, HUFs, Companies etc.	RatioOfTheDecision
So every company, even a public sector company, comes within the purview of Section 4 of the Act.	RatioOfTheDecision
13.10 The proposition that the Appellants were a single economic entity because they were driven by a common objective of carrying out obligations of State and were State in implementing the health insurance schemes and other social obligations under Directive Principles of the Constitution, is based on an incorrect premise.	RatioOfTheDecision
There is no constitutional obligation on the Appellants under the Directive Principles to provide health insurance to all.	RatioOfTheDecision
The following paragraphs from the Supreme Court Judgement in the case of Manubhaidharamsinhbhai Gajera (ibid) clarify as to what are the obligations of the Appellants when acting as State: There is no escape from the fact that the appellant is a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution.	PrecedentReliedUpon
It has been created under the 1972 Act.	PrecedentReliedUpon
The said Act, as the preamble shows, was enacted for achieving certain purposes, economic benefit of the people and or group of people, being one of it.	PrecedentReliedUpon
At the point of time when the 1972 Act was enacted the insurance companies enjoyed a monopoly status.	PrecedentReliedUpon
But would it mean that only because it ceases to enjoy the same by itself is sufficient to hold that it is not required to follow the constitutional or statutory norms? If it is a State its action must be fair and reasonable.	PrecedentReliedUpon
It has been so held in a catena of decisions of the Court as for example Peacock Plywood Plywood Ltd. v. Oriental Insurance Company Limited  : (2006) 12 SCC 673 paragraphs 57 at page 691 and Life Insurance Corporation of India v. Consumer Education and Research Centre  : (1995) 5 SCC 482.	PrecedentReliedUpon
There cannot be any doubt that Directive Principles of State policy by themselves per se are not enforceable in a court of law.	PrecedentReliedUpon
See Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala  : (1974) 3 SCC 225.	PrecedentReliedUpon
We would assume that it is one thing to say that the State is to make all endeavours to improve the public health but the same by itself would not mean that a contract of insurance governed by statute must receive construction in terms of the said provision or otherwise, the endeavour of the State should have been to direct compulsory insurance for all its citizens.	PrecedentReliedUpon
Improvement of public health has been held to mean an obligation on the part of the State to put forth its policy to ecological balance and hygienic environment, the later being an indirect facet of the right to healthy life.	PrecedentReliedUpon
Virinder Gaur and others v. State of Haryana and others  : (1995) 2 SCC 577.	PrecedentReliedUpon
See also Kirloskar Brothers Ltd.s.	PrecedentReliedUpon
v. Employees State Insurance Corporation  : (1996) 2 SCC 682.	PrecedentReliedUpon
Even otherwise the term health may be given a wider meaning in the context of insurance.	PrecedentReliedUpon
It may mean sound health.	PrecedentReliedUpon
Collins English Dictionary defines health as :- Health: the state of being bodily and mentally vigorous and free from disease, the general condition of body and mind: in poor health, the condition of any unit, society, etc.	PrecedentReliedUpon
: the economic health of a nation, a toast to a person, wishing him or her good health, happiness, etc., (modifier) of or relating to food or other goods reputed to be beneficial to the health: health food a health store.	PrecedentReliedUpon
, (modifier) of or relating to health, esp.	PrecedentReliedUpon
to the administration of health: a health committee health resort health service., an exclamation wishing someone good health as part of a toast (in the phrases your health, good health, etc.).	PrecedentReliedUpon
The functions of the insurance companies are governed by statute.	PrecedentReliedUpon
A contract of insurance, therefore, must subserve the statutory provisions.	PrecedentReliedUpon
It must indisputably be construed having regard to the larger public policy and public interest guiding nationalization of the insurance companies.	PrecedentReliedUpon
Insurance Sector is regulated.	PrecedentReliedUpon
The provisions of the Insurance Act are applicable to all insurance companies irrespective of the fact as to whether they are in public sector or private sector.	PrecedentReliedUpon
When a business is regulated, all concerned would be governed thereby.	PrecedentReliedUpon
It is one thing to say that the terms and conditions of a contract are statutory in nature but is another thing to say that the statute governs or controls the business itself.	PrecedentReliedUpon
It is the latter which is applicable to the fact of the case.	PrecedentReliedUpon
Two things are apparent.	PrecedentReliedUpon
One, the Central Government has come out with a new economic policy.	PrecedentReliedUpon
The monopoly status has been taken away from the General Insurance Corporation of India and its subsidiaries.	PrecedentReliedUpon
The insurance companies are required to compete with others in the field, but the same may not necessarily mean that despite the statutory interdicts the public sectors insurance companies must have a level playing field with the private insurance companies.	PrecedentReliedUpon
We have, despite the new economic policy of the Central Government, no option but to proceed on the assumption that the public sector insurance companies being a State have a different role to play.	PrecedentReliedUpon
It is not to say that as a matter of policy statutory or otherwise the insurance companies are bound to regulate all contracts of insurance having the statement of Directive Principles in mind but there cannot be any doubt whatsoever that fairness or reasonableness on the part of the insurance companies must appear in all of its dealings.	PrecedentReliedUpon
(emphasis supplied) 13.11 Thus while acting as State, the only obligation of the Appellants in regard to insurance contracts was to be fair and reasonable and to be governed by the larger public policy but that did not mean that they were to necessarily provide health insurance by bidding for the GOK tenders or were in terms of GIBNA read with Article 39(c) of the Constitution mandated to participate in the health insurance schemes.	RatioOfTheDecision
It is also important to note that Article 39(c) of the Constitution provides that the State shall direct its policy towards securing that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment.	RatioOfTheDecision
Nationalisation of general insurance business, as specifically stated in Section 2 of GIBNA was for giving effect to the policy of the State under Article 39(c) of the Constitution.	RatioOfTheDecision
GIBNA does not make any reference to Article 39(e) of the Constitution which provides that the State should direct its policy towards securing that the health and strength of workers, men and women, and the tender age of children are not abused and that citizens are not forced by economic necessity to enter avocations unsuited to their age or strength.	RatioOfTheDecision
13.12 Various international cases cited by the Appellants were based on legal provisions applicable in those jurisdictions.	RatioOfTheDecision
Further, the concept of single economic entity was confirmed in those cases as also in Lamborgni case (ibid), as the subsidiaries did not enjoy real autonomy in their operational decisions, and along with their parent represented a single aggregation of economic power.	RatioOfTheDecision
In the present case, the Appellants are Board managed companies, with autonomy in operational matters and cannot be aggregated with DFS, which is not engaged in any activities relating to good or services.	RatioOfTheDecision
Besides, the fact that the Appellants were competing inter se, was acknowledged in the letter of DFS dated 24.05.12, cited by the Appellants to support their case of control and influence of DFS and extracted in paragraph 12.1 (v) of this Order, though the competition was described as very unhealthy and self-destructive inter-company competition among these four Companies.	RatioOfTheDecision
13.13 Our decision in the case of Wing Cdr.	RatioOfTheDecision
(Retd.) Dr. Biswanath Prasad Singh v. Director General of Health Services (DGHS) (Appeal Number 63 of 2014), cited by the Appellants to support their claim of DFS being an enterprise, is premised on different facts.	RatioOfTheDecision
In that case, the finding of fact was that DGHS was not just a facilitator for its target group to seek healthcare in empanelled hospitals but itself provided healthcare in its 273 allopathic dispensaries, 19 polyclinics, 73 labs and 85 Ayush hospitals.	RatioOfTheDecision
In the present case, DFS is not providing insurance services.	RatioOfTheDecision
13.14 We do not agree that the Appellants are a single economic entity or that DFS was an enterprise in terms of Section 2(h) of the Act, engaged in providing general insurance services through its subsidiaries i.e the Appellants.	RatioOfTheDecision
Once we hold that the Appellants are not a single economic entity, we have to assess their conduct in the tender process and analyze the agreement recorded in the minutes dated 7.12.2009 extracted in paragraph 2 of this Order, to determine whether there was a contravention of Section 3 of the Act on account of bid rigging.	RatioOfTheDecision
The admitted facts reveal that, senior officials of the Appellants held a meeting on 7.12.2009 wherein it was agreed that UIICL would be L1 with respect to the tender floated by the Government of Kerala for the year 2010-11.	RatioOfTheDecision
UIICL did in fact emerge as the lowest qualifying bidder in terms of the aforesaid Agreement for subsequent tenders too, where all the four Appellants bid.	RatioOfTheDecision
The contention of the Appellants is that, UIICL had incurred huge losses from the first year of the scheme and having already suffered losses in the previous years, the sister companies discussed about the capacity building, risk improvement measures and sharing of burden of losses while serving a social sector scheme.	RatioOfTheDecision
It was submitted that, since UIICL had a strong presence and large infrastructure in South, the minutes actually presented the decision to serve the social sector scheme by UIICL and for other sister companies to provide support as co-insurers in the loss making scheme.	RatioOfTheDecision
A chart was handed over to us during the arguments to show that in the year 2008-2010, UIICL had suffered losses of Rs. 7.88 crores which got enhanced to Rs. 70 crores in the year 2010-11 and Rs. 42.63 crores in 2011-12 and it was in the year 2012-13 that UIICL could make profit of Rs. 92.05 crores.	RatioOfTheDecision
This profit was stated to be on account of restriction imposed by the Government on the complaint of UIICL on staff incentives.	RatioOfTheDecision
It was emphasized that the real result of the Agreement was that, UIICL had reduced share of losses due to cooperation of sister Appellant companies.	RatioOfTheDecision
It was impressed upon us that, the Appellants were not the only bidders as private sector companies were also eligible to bid and actually did bid, and hence bid manipulation to ensure success of UIICL was not possible.	RatioOfTheDecision
It was urged that, there was no intention to make supernormal profit and the exit from the Agreements was for valid reason of losses.	RatioOfTheDecision
14.1 According to the counsel of the respondent, the uncontroverted fact of the Agreement followed by repeated success of UIICL in various tenders was sufficient to establish bid-rigging on the part of the Appellants.	RatioOfTheDecision
He submitted that, it was entirely irrelevant in law that there were other bidders not party to the said Agreement, or that the Agreement did not ultimately result in abnormal profit (or, for that matter, any profit) for the participating Companies.	RatioOfTheDecision
The argument that the Appellants intended to engage in co-insurance was stated to be entirely untenable, since such an arrangement ought to have been disclosed to the Government of Kerala, and only one Company should have entered a bid in the tender process.	RatioOfTheDecision
It was stressed that even the coinsurance Agreement which was placed on record by the Appellant demonstrated that, Co-insurance necessarily required participation as a Consortium with pre-determined shares being disclosed to the Client and a lead Consortium Partner being identified to take on day-to-day responsibility for the transaction.	RatioOfTheDecision
It was underlined that, no such common bid was tendered and the four purportedly independent bids were entered which created an illusion of competition which would have convinced the Government of Kerala that a robust market mechanism had determined the correct price, although this was far from the truth.	RatioOfTheDecision
14.2 We agree with the conclusion of the Commission that, the Appellants did enter into an Agreement as defined in Section 2(b) of the Act, in contravention of Section 3 of the Act, which resulted in bid rigging.	RatioOfTheDecision
The minutes of the meeting which caused the initiation of inquiry by the Commission are a contemporaneous record of the intent of the meeting and decisions taken.	RatioOfTheDecision
There is no mention of co-insurance.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Office Notes quoted in paragraph 52 and 53 of the impugned order confirm the continuation of the Agreement recorded in the said minutes.	RatioOfTheDecision
Besides, a co-insurance Agreement dated 20.2.2009, which was entered into between the existing IRDA- licensed non-life insurers operating in the Indian market including the Appellants, inter alia included the following under the title system of co-insurance: The term of coinsurers shall contain a lead insurer and coinsurers who will be name by the insured according to their choice at the time of placing their proposal with the lead insurer.	RatioOfTheDecision
The client shall name the percentage of the risk allotted to the lead insurer and Coinsurer, at the time of placing the business with the lead insurer.	RatioOfTheDecision
In writing, clearly specifying the share of business amongst them.	RatioOfTheDecision
This agreement which governed the co-insurance arrangement required that GOK should have been apprised of the said arrangement and only one of the Appellants should have bid, which admittedly is not the position.	RatioOfTheDecision
So the plea of co-insurance is not tenable.	RatioOfTheDecision
14.3 An argument was made that, the Agreement of 7.12.2009 was not implemented because ratio of business share differed from the ratio recorded in the Minutes and all the Appellants actually incurred losses, except in 2012-2013.	RatioOfTheDecision
However, this variation and incurring of losses will not undermine the anti-competitive nature of the Agreement.	RatioOfTheDecision
The fact is that, all the Appellants bid for the tenders, though OICL, did not share the business after 2010-2011 and sharing ratio deviated from the ratio agreed at in the minutes.	RatioOfTheDecision
Bid rigging as defined in Explanation to sub-section (3) of Section 3 of the Act, inter alia, means manipulating the process of bidding.	RatioOfTheDecision
Such manipulation does not require sharing of business and there is no assumption that bid rigging is for making profits.	RatioOfTheDecision
Anti-competitive Agreement resulting in bid rigging is a per se contravention.	RatioOfTheDecision
14.4 The bid rigging arrangement executed by the Appellants was in the nature of cover bidding whereby three of them agreed to submit bids which were higher than the bid of UIICL.	RatioOfTheDecision
The bidding pattern has been appropriately analyzed by the Commission in the impugned order and the relevant table and findings have been noted in paragraphs 8.2 and 8.3 of this Order.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Appellants, through their separate bids created an impression of genuine competition.	RatioOfTheDecision
This misleading facade resulted in UIICL not ending up as a lone qualifying bidder.	RatioOfTheDecision
It is relevant to note that the Kerala High Court, which was the jurisdictional court, had in its judgement in WA Number 3332 of 2001 dated 29.10.2001, held that when there was only one bidder and the contract was awarded to that bidder, there was demonstrable prejudice to public interest.	RatioOfTheDecision
On the facts of this case for the tender for the year 2010-2011, there were only 2 qualifying bidders i.e UIICL and OICL and for the year 2011-2012 also there were only two qualifying bidders i.e NIACL and UIICL.	RatioOfTheDecision
If OICL or NIACL had not bid, this would have been an instance of lone qualifying bidder.	RatioOfTheDecision
Viewed from this perspective, cartelization ensured success of UIICL.	RatioOfTheDecision
14.5 The Appellants, if they wanted to share risks could have bid as a consortium without contravening Section 3 of the Act.	RatioOfTheDecision
There is no bar on their forming a consortium and as per information in public domain they did form a consortium under the lead of NIACL and won a bid for insuring the fleet of Air India.	RatioOfTheDecision
14.6 We are of the view that, there was no constitutional or statutory requirement for the Appellants to participate in each tender regarding the health insurance.	RatioOfTheDecision
There was no direction or even advice from DFS to participate in the tenders issued by GOK.	RatioOfTheDecision
Further, if they wanted to spread their risks, they had an option to either enter into a formal co-insurance arrangement or to bid as a consortium.	RatioOfTheDecision
Statutorily, as brought out by us in earlier part of this Order, they were expected to compete and operate on business principles.	RatioOfTheDecision
On the facts of this case, we have no hesitation in concluding that anti-competitive agreement was entered into by the Appellants in contravention of Section 3(1) of the Act, which constituted bid rigging in terms of Section 3(3) of the Act.	RatioOfTheDecision
The next issue is as to whether the Appellant can escape the presumption of appreciable adverse effect on competition on account of bid rigging.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Appellants argued that agreement, if any between the Appellants could not have had any appreciable adverse effect on competition in the market, which is the sine qua non for the contravention under Section 3(3) of the Act, for the following reasons: It was an Agreement between sister concerns controlled by a single parent head or the common shareholder.	ArgumentPetitioner
Not all the Appellants qualified for the financial evaluation of the bids each year.	ArgumentPetitioner
Factors enumerated in Section 19(3) of the Act were sufficient to establish that this was not the case where there was any appreciable adverse effect on the competition in the market.	ArgumentPetitioner
On the contrary, there was substantial benefit to the consumers and there was also increase in efficiency as a result of the Agreement of co-insurance entered into between the parties.	ArgumentPetitioner
The fact that the Appellants suffered heavy losses was indicative of there being no appreciable adverse effect on the competition.	ArgumentPetitioner
The fact that prices were increased by the Appellants while quoting for tender each year was of no consequence since the prices were increased even by the private players.	ArgumentPetitioner
DG after investigation had found no evidence of any collusion between private and public sector companies.	ArgumentPetitioner
Therefore, since prices were not increased for bids by any collusive activities, there was no appreciable adverse effect on the competition in the market.	ArgumentPetitioner
15.1 Sub-section 3 of Section 3 of the Act creates a presumption that any agreement which results in bid rigging, has an appreciable adverse effect on competition.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Proviso to this sub-section carves out an exception by stipulating that any agreement entered into by way of joint venture which increases efficiency in production, supply, distribution, storage, acquisition or control of goods or provision of services, is not covered by such presumption.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Appellants have not established as to how they constituted a joint venture or how even on the presupposition of a joint venture, they delivered the benefits as enumerated in the said Proviso.	RatioOfTheDecision
15.2 The presumption under Section 3(3) of the Act takes away the applicability of rule of reason.	RatioOfTheDecision
Bid rigging has been statutorily determined to be anticompetitive.	RatioOfTheDecision
Presumption in a substantive law is irrefutable and conclusive.	RatioOfTheDecision
Once a conclusion of bid rigging is reached, contravention of Section 3(1) of the Act is also established.	RatioOfTheDecision
We see no reason to interfere in the conclusion of the Commission that the Appellants entered into an Anti-competitive Agreement, resulting in bid rigging which had an appreciable adverse effect on competition.	RatioOfTheDecision
The next issue pertains to the claim of the Appellants that the DG exceeded his mandate of investigation by including tenders for the years 2011-12 and 2012-13 when the order to investigate the matter under Section 26(1) of the Act dated 12.2.2014, mentioned only bid rigging of tender dated 18.11.2009 based on the photocopy of the minutes of the meeting dated 7.12.2009.	RatioOfTheDecision
It was argued that the Commission too went beyond the mandate contained in its prima facie order under Section 26(1) of the Act.	RatioOfTheDecision
1 6 .1 We do not agree with the Appellants.	RatioOfTheDecision
The minutes of the meeting dated 7.12.2009 which were admittedly authentic and based on which the Commission took up the matter suo moto under Section 19(1) of the Act, were annexed to a letter, which has been reproduced in paragraph 2 of this Order.	RatioOfTheDecision
This letter specifically alleged that the Insurance Companies have formed a cartel and increased the premium for RSBY every year.	RatioOfTheDecision
(emphasis supplied).	RatioOfTheDecision
The minutes of the meeting dated 7.12.2009 were attached as a documentary proof.	RatioOfTheDecision
In the Order under Section 26(1) of the Act, in para 9, the Commission held as follows: In view of the above, prima facie there appears to be an agreement or arrangement between the OPs as bidders for rigging bid in tenders issued by the Government of Kerala for RSBY Scheme in contravention of the provisions of Section 3(3) of the Act.	RulingByLowerCourt
The Commission considers it appropriate that this matter be sent to the DG for thorough investigation under Section 26(1) of the Act.	RulingByLowerCourt
(emphasis supplied).	None
2 Therefore, the allegation was in regard to the conduct of the insurance companies for increase of premium through cartelization every year and the order of the Commission was in regard to rigging bid in regard to tenders.	RatioOfTheDecision
Accordingly, the DG and the Commission validily examined the tender process for the years 2010- 11, 2011-12 and 2012-13.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Appellants have sought quashing of the impugned order on the ground of violation of the principles of natural justice.	RatioOfTheDecision
It was stated that, all the members of the Commission and the Chairman were present for the hearing dated 07.04.15, wherein counsel for the Appellants was heard for some time on the preliminary objection regarding the maintainability of the proceedings under Section 3(3) of the Act against companies forming a Single Economic Entity.	RatioOfTheDecision
Further, it was submitted that a specific question was raised by the Chairman as to whether the Government of India supported the argument advanced by the Appellants that they were a Single Economic Entity and the matter was adjourned for a final hearing on 14.05.15, on which date the Appellants filed a letter dated 14.05.15 issued by the DFS, responding to the Chairmans query, but a quorum of four members without the Chairman, heard the arguments and reserved the order.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Appellants asserted that on inspection, they had found that the Chairman participated in the internal deliberations of the Commission on 10.06.15 when submissions of the parties were considered and a decision to call for financial details was taken, which in effect meant a decision to impose penalty.	RatioOfTheDecision
Therefore, their stand is that the Chairman was part of deliberations and the decision making of the case but chose not to sign the final order.	RatioOfTheDecision
The contention was that, the entire order was vitiated on account of Quorum Non Judice and on account of the violation of the important principle of one who hears must decide without any influence.	RatioOfTheDecision
Reliance was placed on our decision in the case of Lafarge v. CCI (Case Number 103 of 2012), which, inter alia, referred to the Supreme Court judgement in the case of A.K. Kraipak v. Union of India  : (1969) 2 SCC 262, to claim that this violation was a fatal irregularity.	PrecedentNotReliedUpon
Further, it was stated that in a case of similar irregularity, the Kings Bench Division in the case of R V Sussex 1924 1 KB 256, had also set-aside the order under challenge with the following observation: The answer to that question depends not upon what actually was done but upon what might appear to be done.	PrecedentNotReliedUpon
Nothing is to be done which creates even a suspicion that there has been an improper interference with the course of justice.	PrecedentNotReliedUpon
1 7 .1 In the course of the oral arguments, it was repeatedly asserted that the Chairman of the Commission had earlier functioned as Finance Secretary in the Government of India and held the additional charge of DFS for some time and was well aware of the relationship of DFS with the Appellants.	RatioOfTheDecision
The suggestion was that, the participation of such a person in deliberations and his not signing the final Order fatally vitiated the Order.	RatioOfTheDecision
17.2 We see no merit in the arguments of the Appellants.	RatioOfTheDecision
Vitiation of an Order on account of influence, based on the principle that one who hears must decide without any influence, requires possibility of influence by an interested person to the prejudice of the party challenging the Order.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Appellants in the present case have failed to establish any personal interest of the Chairman in the proceedings or how his presence in some deliberations and not being party to the impugned Order, caused any prejudice to their case.	RatioOfTheDecision
Reference to the judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of A.K. Kraipak(ibid), referred by us in the Lafarge case (ibid) is misplaced as in that case a person who was himself a candidate for selection from the State Service to an All India Service, was a member of the Selection Committee.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Supreme Court was of the view that, though such an interested person may not have participated in the deliberation when his own case was being considered, his bias could have operated in a subtle manner in selection of other persons, including his competitors.	RatioOfTheDecision
Similarly, in the Kings Bench decision (ibid), the court was considering challenge to an order convicting a person involved in a collision, of driving in a manner dangerous to public.	RatioOfTheDecision
The presence of Justices clerk, who was interested in the proceedings, being member of the firm of solicitors representing a client in a civil suit for damages in respect of the same collision, while the justices were considering their decision, led to quashing of the conviction.	RatioOfTheDecision
In the present case, there is no material to indicate personal interest of the Chairman or how his presence in some of the meetings vitiated arriving at a just decision by the Members, or the kind of influence he allegedly exercised.	RatioOfTheDecision
The impugned Order is by the Members of the Commission, who heard the Appellants and the Chairman was rightly not party to the Order, as admittedly he was not present during all the proceedings when the Appellants were heard.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Appellants have contested the observations of the Commission in paragraph 60 of the impugned Order that, the entire modus operandi resorted to by UIICL in concert with the other Appellants to exit from the tender year after year forcing re- tendering and consequent quotation of higher quotation of premium in collusion, was a virtual fraud perpetrated upon the State of Kerala with regard to a social welfare scheme directed at BPL families.	RatioOfTheDecision
The counsel for the Respondent defended these observations as being warranted and appropriate.	RatioOfTheDecision
He pointed out that, the word fraud was qualified by the word virtual, thereby nuancing the finding to that extent and that the conduct had to be viewed more seriously when the Appellants were public sector enterprises.	RatioOfTheDecision
18.1 We have examined this finding of virtual fraud emanating from UIICL exiting twice from contracts and seeking increased premium in re-tender bids, in the context of admitted facts.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Appellants had submitted before us that, UIICL did not exit from the contract relating to the year 2012-2013 in which it made profits but the GOK decided to re-tender and this submission was not controverted by the counsel for the Respondent.	RatioOfTheDecision
Every contract that UIICL exited, was causing losses as the claim amount exceeded the premium receipt, a fact not disputed by the Respondent.	RatioOfTheDecision
The internal correspondence of GOK in regard to re-tendering and request of UIICL for premium adjustment show that the GOK found the losses to be genuine.	RatioOfTheDecision
It is also a fact that, when UIICL decided to terminate the contract after having provided the service for 1 year in regard to the contracts for the years 2010-11, 2011-12, by exercising the option of termination, which was available to it in terms of the contract itself, GOK did not question the bona-fide of UIICL.	RatioOfTheDecision
UIICL was allowed to bid again without being blacklisted and contracts were awarded to it at a higher premium with due consideration at the highest level in the State, which proves that the raising of premium rates was considered justified by GOK, in view of the claims being higher than the premium.	RatioOfTheDecision
In these circumstances we hold that, the finding of virtual fraud was unjustified and set aside the same.	RatioOfTheDecision
That brings us to the last question of validity of penalty imposed.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Appellants questioned imposition of penalty on the ground that, the agreement was necessary to serve the needs of the society better and it was not a case of contumacious disregard of law and no malafide could be attributed to the Appellants.	RatioOfTheDecision
Our attention was drawn to various internal communications of GOK wherein the concerns of UIICL regarding increased losses in view of non-availability of premium adjustment clause were acknowledged as genuine by the State government while approving the re-tendering.	RatioOfTheDecision
It was submitted that there was no impact on competition in the State and consumers benefited and only because there was a power to impose penalty, it did not mean that a penalty must be imposed.	RatioOfTheDecision
Reliance was placed on judgement of the Supreme Court in the case of Hindustan Steel Limited v. State of Orissa,  : (1970) AIR 253 and our observations in the case of A.R. Polymers Private Limited v. Competition Commission of India and Anr.(Appeal Number 34/2013).	RatioOfTheDecision
Another argument was that, the Commission failed to give a show-cause notice regarding the penalty to be imposed, which should have been given after the Appellants had seen the impugned Order on the merits of the case.	RatioOfTheDecision
Further, it was pointed out by the counsel for OICL that the Commission did not even take into account the mitigating factor in the case of OICL which did not share business with UIICL after 2010-11 on the ground of losses being too heavy.	RatioOfTheDecision
19.1 The quantum of penalty imposed was challenged on the ground of it being totally disproportionate to the turnover under the RSBY Scheme in Kerala.	RatioOfTheDecision
It was contended that, the Commission had ignored the principle of relevant turnover upheld in a series of judgment viz.-(a) Excel Crop Care Limited v Competition Commission of India and Ors, (Appeal Number 79/2012, Order dated 29.10.2013) (b) ECP Industries Limited v. Competition Commission of India Anr.	RatioOfTheDecision
, (Appeal Number 47/2015, Order dated 1 March 2016) at paras 22-23 (c)Dr.	RatioOfTheDecision
L.H. Hiranandani Hospital v. Competition Commission of India Anr, (Appeal Number 19/2014, Order dated 18 December 2015) at para 38 and (d) Escorts Limited v. Competition Commission of India Anr, (Appeal Number 13/2014, Order dated 18 December 2015) at para.	RatioOfTheDecision
27(ii).	RatioOfTheDecision
19.2 The counsel for the Respondent justified the penalty as being appropriate and not warranting any judicial interference by us.	RatioOfTheDecision
His argument was that, there was serious cartelization and bid rigging indulged in by the Appellants, which from the factual perspective had gone virtually unchallenged before the Commission and also the Tribunal.	RatioOfTheDecision
He stated that, the Commission had appropriately analyzed the mitigating and aggravating circumstances.	RatioOfTheDecision
It was further argued that, the penalty may seem large but the total turnover of the Appellant could not be ignored if the penalty was to serve the purpose of effectively deterring the wrong-doer in question as well as other potential offenders which might be tempted to act in similar fashion.	RatioOfTheDecision
His stance was that, penalty must bear a reasonable relationship to the turnover (and therefore financial power) of such wrongdoer.	RatioOfTheDecision
19.3 We, as discussed in this Order, have no hesitation in confirming that bid rigging constituting contravention of Section 3 of the Act did take place, and on the facts of the case and the legal position, we agree that the Appellants should suffer the penal consequences.	RatioOfTheDecision
Law was breached and the legal conclusive presumption is that there was an appreciable adverse effect on competition.	RatioOfTheDecision
We have perused the record of the Commission and its Order dated 14.5.2015 records that, the Appellants were heard with regard to the merits of the case and also on penalty.	RatioOfTheDecision
Therefore, the Appellants were afforded an opportunity to present their case with regard to penalty.	RatioOfTheDecision
19.4 The only issue requiring our consideration is the quantum of penalty imposed and the basis on which it was calculated.	RatioOfTheDecision
The Commission has calculated the penalty at the rate of 2 against the maximum of 10 on the average turnover of the Appellants for the years 2010-2011, 2011-2012 and 2012-2013.	RatioOfTheDecision
19.5 We have in a number of cases interpreted the term turnover for the purposes of Section 27(b) of the Act to mean value of goods and services which are made subject matter of investigation under Section 26 of the Act and hence liable for punishment under Section 27 of the Act.	RatioOfTheDecision
Some of such cases have been cited by the Appellants as mentioned in paragraph 19.1 above and we see no reason to take a different view in this case.	RatioOfTheDecision
Penalty has to be calculated with reference to the gross premium received by UIICL as insurance provider under RSBY CHIS scheme and penalty for each of the Appellants will be a proportion of their share in such premium.	RatioOfTheDecision
19.6 In determining the rate of penalty at 2, the Commission has considered the peculiarities of the insurance sector and the importance of insurer solvency for the consumer, as a mitigating circumstance.	RatioOfTheDecision
Bid rigging in public procurement for a social welfare scheme was treated to be an aggravating circumstance.	RatioOfTheDecision
While we agree with the conclusion of the Commission in regard to the mitigating circumstance, we are of the view that the aggravating circumstance identified by the Commission does not apply to the facts of this case.	RatioOfTheDecision
It cannot be denied, and the Commission had taken cognizance of the internal note of OICL(reproduced in paragraph 6.6 of this Order) indicating that the Appellants were aware of the likelihood of incurring losses and OICL actually refused to share business, but despite that, UIICL proceeded to bid for the tender.	RatioOfTheDecision
From such conduct, it is evident that the Appellants who were Public Sector Companies, in their zeal to participate in a Government sponsored Health Insurance Scheme benefiting the poor, ignored prudence and the restraints of the competition law.	RatioOfTheDecision
Such conduct cannot constitute an aggravating circumstance.	RatioOfTheDecision
We also recognize that the burden of penalty will ultimately be transferred to public, as the Appellants are owned by the Government.	RatioOfTheDecision
We, therefore consider it appropriate that penalty be restricted to 1 of the relevant turnover as calculated below: 1 9 .7 In the result, the Appeals are partly allowed and the impugned Order is modified in the manner indicated hereinabove.	RulingByPresentCourt
