section Singhvi, J. (Chairman) This appeal is directed against order dated 30.07.2012 passed by the Competition Commission of India (for short the Commission) in Case Number RTPE 52/2006, whereby the appellant was held guilty of acting in violation of Section 3(3)(a) and 3(3)(b) read with Section 3(1) of the Competition Act, 2002 (for short, the Act) and penalty of Rs. 397.15 Crores was imposed on it.	RulingByLowerCourt
The Commission further directed the appellant to cease and desist from indulging in any activity relating to agreement, understanding or arrangement of prices, production and supply of cement in the market.	RulingByLowerCourt
A perusal of the impugned order shows that after going through the press reports published in Business Daily and Economic Times dated 09.05.2006 and 29.06.2006 regarding increase in cement prices and on receipt of letter dated 16.09.2006 of the Builders Association of India (BAI), which was forwarded to it by the Ministry of Company Affairs on 29.06.2006, the erstwhile Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Commission (for short MRTP Commission) took suo moto cognisance and initiated investigation and entrusted the matter to the Director General (Investigation and Registration).	Fact
The latter asked all the cement manufacturing companies to furnish their comments as well as break-up of cost of cement per metric ton including state levies.	Fact
BAI was also asked to substantiate its allegation regarding increase in prices.	Fact
41 cement manufacturers submitted replies and denied the allegation that they had formed a cartel.	Fact
Before the Director General (Investigation and Registration) could complete the investigation, the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 was repealed by Section 66 of the Act and RTPE Number 52/2006 was transferred to the Commission.	Fact
The Commission considered the matter in its meeting held on 24.06.2010 and passed an order under Section 26(1) whereby the Director General was directed to conduct an investigation into the matter.	Fact
After conducting investigation, the Director General submitted report dated 31.05.2011 with the finding that the appellant had acted in contravention of Section 3(3)(a) and 3(3)(b) read with Section 3(1) of the Act.	Fact
In the meanwhile, an information was filed by BAI under Section 19(1)(a) alleging formation of cartel by 11 cement manufacturing companies and Cement Manufacturers Association.	Fact
The same was registered as Case Number 29/2010 and the Commission passed an order under Section 26(1) for an investigation by the Director General.	Fact
On the basis of the investigation report submitted in Case Number 29/2010, the Commission passed order dated 20.06.2012 and imposed penalty amounting to Rs. 6,316.59 Crores on the cement manufacturers and the Association.	RulingByLowerCourt
The Commission largely relied upon the findings recorded in Case Number 29/2010 and reiterated the finding that the appellant had violated Section 3(3)(a) and 3(3)(b) read with Section 3(1) of the Act and imposed the penalty to which reference has been made hereinabove.	RulingByLowerCourt
The appellant has challenged the impugned order on several grounds, two of which are that the suo-moto investigation initiated by the MRTP Commission could not have been continued by invoking Section 66 of the Act and clubbed with the investigation conducted by the Director General in Case Number 29/2010 and in any case, the findings recorded in the latter case could not have been relied upon for holding the appellant guilty of violating Section 3 of the Act and further that the Chairperson of the Commission, who was not present in the meetings held on 21st, 22nd and 23rd February, 2012 and did not have the benefit of hearing the arguments of the advocates representing the parties could not have taken part in the decision-making process and passed the impugned order.	ArgumentPetitioner
By a separate order passed today, we have allowed Appeal Number 105 of 2012 Lafarge India Limited v. Competition Commission of India and Another and connected matters and set-aside order dated 20.06.2012 passed by the Commission.	Fact
The operative portion of that order reads as under: In the result, the appeals are allowed.	Fact
The impugned order is set aside and the matter is remitted to the Commission for fresh adjudication of the issues relating to alleged violation of Sections 3(3) (a) and 3(3)(b) read with Section 3(1) of the Act by the appellants.	Fact
The appellant shall be entitled to withdraw the amount deposited by them in compliance of the interim order passed by the Tribunal.	Fact
The Commission shall hear the advocates representatives of the appellants and BAI and pass fresh order in accordance with law.	Fact
We hope and trust that the Commission shall pass fresh order as early as possible but within a period of three months from the date, which may be notified after receipt of this order.	Fact
The parties shall be free to advance all legally permissible arguments.	Fact
They may rely upon the documents, which formed part of the record of the Jt.	Fact
DG or which may have been filed by them before the commencement of hearing on 21.02.2012.	Fact
The parties shall also be free to press the applications already filed before the Commission.	Fact
However, no application, which may be filed hereinafter for cross-examination of the persons, whose statements were recorded by the Jt.	Fact
DG or for any other purpose shall be entertained by the Commission.	Fact
As a sequel to the above, I.A. Number 36/2013 filed by the appellant in Appeal Number 105/2012 for review of order dated 17th May, 2013 is disposed of as infructuous.	Fact
Before parting with this order, we consider it necessary to mention that we have referred to various provisions of the Act (un-amended and amended) and Regulations and analysed the same to emphasize the proceedings held under the Act and the Regulations should be just and fair and in consonance with the principles of natural justice as engrafted in the Act and the Regulations.	Fact
We also feel that the time has come for the Commission to evolve a comprehensive protocol and lay down guidelines for conducting investigation inquiry in consonance with the rules of natural justice.	Fact
It should be realized that much of the appellate litigation would be obviated if a just and fair procedure is adopted for conducting investigation and inquiry and passing of orders under Section 27, 28 and the provisions contained in Chapter VI of the Act.	Fact
Since the impugned order is mainly founded on the findings recorded in Case Number 29 of 2010 and the order passed in that case under Section 27 of the Act has been set-aside on the ground of violation of principle that only one who hears can decide, the order under challenge is also set aside in similar terms.	RatioOfTheDecision
The detailed reasons recorded in the order passed today in Appeal Number 105 of 2012 and connected matters and the directions contained therein shall be read as part of this order.	RulingByPresentCourt
