Vibhu Bakhru, J. The petitioner has filed the present petition, inter alia, praying as under:- (a) issue an appropriate direction, order or writ in the nature of certiorari calling for the records of the case bearing Combination Registration Number C- 2015/07/288 from the Respondent and thereafter quashing the impugned Order dated 2 May 2017 bearing Combination Registration Number C- 2015/07/288/6446 passed by the Respondent and (b) issue an appropriate direction, order or writ in the nature of mandamus directing the Respondent to conduct an investigation under the Act in regard to the breach of commitments by PVR Limited of the Order dated 4 May 2016 passed by CCI in Combination Registration Number C-2015/07/288 and other actions and or 2 .	Fact
The petitioner is engaged in the business of exhibition of cinematographic films and is, apparently, aggrieved by the alleged anticompetitive conduct of M section PVR Limited (hereafter PVR).	Fact
It is the petitioners case that PVR has violated the undertaking provided to the Competition Commission of India (hereafter the CCI), which formed the part of the order dated 04.05.2016 passed by the CCI.	ArgumentPetitioner
The petitioners complaint that PVR had violated the order dated 04.05.2016 was rejected by the CCI, by an order dated 02.05.2017 (hereafter the impugned order).	ArgumentPetitioner
Aggrieved by the same the petitioner has filed the present petition.	Fact
Briefly stated, the facts necessary to address the controversy are as under: 3 .1 PVR is a listed company and is also engaged in the business of developing, operating and managing cinema theatres across India.	Fact
Undisputedly, PVR has a significant market share of the business of exhibiting films in theatres.	Fact
3.2 PVR entered into an agreement dated 09.06.2015 to acquire the film exhibition business of M section DLF Utilities Limited The said acquisition would significantly increase PVRs share in the business of exhibition of films.	Fact
Accordingly, it issued a notice under Section 6 of the Competition Act, 2002 (hereafter the Act) seeking approval of its agreement to acquire the film exhibition business of DLF Utilities Limited (the Combination).	Fact
3 After receipt of the aforesaid notice, CCI conducted an enquiry, which also entailed seeking responses from other entities (including the petitioner) engaged in the said business.	Fact
3 . 4 The CCI after considering the submissions of various concerned parties concluded that the relevant geographic markets for the purposes of competition assessment of the Combination were (a) Gurgaon (b) South Delhi (c) North, West and Central Delhi (d) NOIDA and (e) Chandigarh and the relevant markets were as under:- Relevant market for exhibition of films in multiplex theatres in Gurgaon ii.	Fact
Relevant market for exhibition of films in multiplex theatres and high-end single screen theatres in South Delhi iii.	Fact
Relevant market for exhibition of films in multiplex theatres and high-end single screen theatres in North, West Central Delhi iv.	Fact
Relevant market for exhibition of films in multiplex theatres in NOIDA and Relevant market for exhibition of films in multiplex theatres in Chandigarh.	Fact
3.5 The CCI also concluded that the Combination was likely to have an appreciable adverse effect on competition in the relevant markets for (i) exhibition of films in multiplex theatres in Noida (ii) exhibition of films in multiplex theatres in Gurgaon and (iii) for exhibition of films in multiplex theatres in high end single screen theatres in South Delhi.	Fact
3.6 After considering the same, the CCI, by its order dated 04.05.2016, approved the proposed Combination under Section 31(7) of the Act subject to certain conditions.	RulingByLowerCourt
The operative part of the said order is set out below:- Pursuant to the above, the Commission hereby approves the Proposed Combination under sub-section (7) of Section 31 of the Act, subject to the Parties complying with commitments in relation to (a) relevant market for exhibition of films in multiplex theatres in NOIDA (b) relevant market for exhibition of films in multiplex theatres in Gurgaon (c) Co-operation Agreement and (d) Non-Compete Agreement as detailed Annexure A and carrying out the Modification to the Proposed Combination as detailed in Annexure B. It is however to be noted, that the Commission is granting the present approval, under sub-section (7) of Section 31 of the Act, and that such approval is being granted, pursuant to the underlying competition assessment, based upon the information details provided by the Parties, in the notice given under sub-section (2) of Section 6 of the Act.	RulingByLowerCourt
This approval should not be construed as immunity in any manner from subsequent proceedings before the Commission for violations of other provisions of the act.	RulingByLowerCourt
It is incumbent upon the Parties to ensure that this ex-ante approval does not lead to ex-post violation of the provisions of the Act.	RulingByLowerCourt
The petitioner alleges that PVR has violated its commitment pertaining to exhibition of films in multiplex theatres in the relevant market in NOIDA and in Gurgaon.	ArgumentPetitioner
This allegation is based on the fact that PVR has entered into letters of intents (LOI) deals in respect of properties located in NOIDA and in Gurgaon for acquiring further screens in those areas.	ArgumentPetitioner
The petitioner filed an application dated 09.11.2016 before the CCI alleging that PVR had violated its commitments forming a part of the CCIs order dated 04.05.2016.	ArgumentPetitioner
The petitioner alleged that with the PVR acquiring further properties screens, its market concentration would increase and accordingly, requested the CCI to carry out a thorough investigation and to direct PVR to terminate the letters of intent (LOIs) in respect of sites located in NOIDA and Gurgaon, which were specified in the application.	ArgumentPetitioner
The petitioners complaint (application) that PVR had violated its commitments, was rejected by the impugned order the CCI concluded that PVR had not breached the commitments given in the order dated 04.05.2016 passed under Section 31(7) of the Act.	Fact
The limited controversy that falls for consideration of this Court in this petition is whether the decision of the CCI that PVR had not violated its undertaking is erroneous and unsustainable.	Issue
Before proceeding to address the aforesaid controversy, it would be relevant to set out the relevant commitments made by PVR, which formed the part of the order dated 04.05.2016.	Fact
The relevant extract of Annexure A to the said order is set out below:- Commitments pertaining to Relevant Market for Exhibition of films in Multiplex Theatres in NOIDA The Commission accepts the commitments offered by the Acquirer regarding the relevant market for exhibition of films in multiplex theatres in NOIDA subject to the Acquire complying with the following: The Acquirer shall, within thirty (30) days from the date of issue of the Order (Effective Date), submit a letter confirming that it has terminated its lease agreement dated 31st March, 2015, entered into with International Recreational Parks (P) Limited for development of a multiplex in Garden Galleria, along with a copy of the termination notice issued by the Acquirer.	Fact
The said letter will be co-signed by the authorized signatory of International Recreational Parks (P) Limited The Parties shall not consummate the Proposed Combination till this requirement is complied with.	Fact
For a period of three (3) years from the date on which the Proposed Combination, as modified by the Order is consummated (Date of Completion), the Acquirer shall, within fifteen (15) days of end of each financial year, submit a certificate issued by its statutory auditor to the effect that, During the preceding financial year, PVR has not expanded its presence in business of exhibition of films through multiplex theatres in NOIDA, i.e., it did not open through organic expansion or takeover through inorganic acquisition, any new screens (either single screen or multiplex).	Fact
For a period of five (5) years from the date of completion of the Proposed Combination, the Acquirer shall, within fifteen (15) days of end of each financial year, submit a certificate issued by its statutory auditor to the effect that, During the preceding financial year, PVR has not acquired any direct or indirect influence or ownership or interest in Garden Galleria.	Fact
PVR is in compliance with the commitments offered by it to the Commission regarding the relevant market for exhibition of films in multiplex theatres in NOIDA.	Fact
Commitments pertaining to Relevant Market for Exhibition of films in Multiplex theatres in Gurgaon The Commission accepts the commitments offered by the Acquirer regarding the relevant market for exhibition of films in multiplex theatres in Gurgaon subject to the Acquirer complying with the following: The Acquirer shall, within thirty (30) days from the Effective Date, submit a letter confirming that it has terminated its agreement dated 18 September 2015, entered into with Reach Promoters Private Limited for the development of a multiplex in Airia Mall, along with a copy of the termination notice issued by the Acquirer.	Fact
The said letter will be co-signed by the authorized signatory of Reach Promoters Private Limited.	Fact
The Parties shall not consummate the Proposed Combination till this requirement is complied with.	Fact
For a period of three (3) years from the Date of Completion of the Proposed Combination, the Acquirer shall, within fifteen (15) days of end of each financial year, submit a certificate issued by its statutory auditor to the effect that: During the preceding financial year, PVR has not expanded its presence in business of exhibition of films in multiplex theatres in Gurgaon, i.e., it did not open through organic expansion or takeover through inorganic acquisition, any new screens (either single screen or multiplex).	Fact
For a period of five (5) years from the Date of Completion of the Proposed Combination, the Acquirer shall, within fifteen (15) days of end of each financial year, submit a certificate issued by its statutory auditor to the effect that: During the preceding financial year, PVR has not acquired any direct or indirect influence or ownership or interest in Airia Mall.	Fact
PVR is in compliance with the commitments offered by it to the Commission regarding the relevant market for exhibition of films in multiplex theatres in Gurgaon.	Fact
Mr. Nayar, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioner had contended that admittedly PVR had entered into transactions to acquire multiplex screens at various sites located in Gurgaon and NOIDA and, therefore, there could be no doubt that PVR had breached its undertaking.	ArgumentPetitioner
He also drew the attention of this Court to the order wherein the CCI had assessed the market share of various entities engaged in the film exhibition business.	ArgumentPetitioner
He submitted that the action of PVR in acquiring further sites would materially reduce the market share of other entities in the relevant markets and, therefore, there could be no dispute that PVR had acted contrary to the CCIs order dated 04.05.2016.	ArgumentPetitioner
Lastly, he submitted that the petitioner had also pointed out that PVR had entered into an arrangement with another entity, namely, MMR and this itself would have an appreciable adverse effect on the competition.	ArgumentPetitioner
There is no dispute that PVR has entered into MOUs letters of intents in respect of screens located at various sites in NOIDA, Greater Noida and Gurgaon.	Fact
However, PVR claims that it has not violated its commitment as it has not opened any new screen and has no intention of violating any of its commitments.	Fact
In view of the above, the controversy revolves around to the question whether PVR had committed undertaken not to enter into LOIs for opening new screens in future.	RatioOfTheDecision
Plainly, the answer to the above must be in negative.	RatioOfTheDecision
A plain reading of the commitment offered by PVR indicates that it agreed to furnish a certificate by its statutory auditor to the effect that it had not expanded its presence in business of exhibition of films through multiplex theatres in Noida (Gurgaon), i.e., it did not open through organic expansion or takeover through inorganic acquisition, any new screens (either single screens or multiplex).	RatioOfTheDecision
There is no ambiguity that PVRs commitment was not to open new screens in the relevant markets for a period of three years from the date on which the Combination as modified by the CCIs order is consummated PVRs commitment did not extend to refraining from entering into any transactions from opening the screens after the period of three years, as specified in the undertaking order, was over.	RatioOfTheDecision
The contention that PVRs stand would run contrary to the CCIs assessment of PVRs market share as indicated in its order dated 04.05.2016 is not material as the only question to be examined is whether PVR had contravened the order or had fallen short of performing its commitments.	RatioOfTheDecision
The contention that the acts of PVR amounts to effectively overreaching the CCIs order dated 04.05.2016 is also unpersuasive.	RatioOfTheDecision
The embargo of not opening new screens for a period of three years in NOIDA and Gurgaon is by itself a significant restriction and this Court finds no reason to interpret the CCIs order or PVRs commitment in an expansive manner.	RatioOfTheDecision
More importantly, any violation of the CCIs order passed under section 31 of the Act has penal consequences.	RatioOfTheDecision
In terms of section 42(2) of the Act any person who fails to comply with the orders or directions of the CCI is punishable by fine which may extent to rupees one lakh for each day subject to maximum of rupees ten crores.	RatioOfTheDecision
In terms of section 42(3) of the Act failure to pay the fine imposed is liable to be visited with punishment of imprisonment for a term which may extend to a period of three years.	RatioOfTheDecision
It is well settled that a statute imposing penalty must be strictly construed, and therefore there is little scope of expanding the scope of commitments that are not expressly clear from the plain language of Annexure A to the order dated 04.05.2016.	RatioOfTheDecision
In Tolaram vs State of Bombay:  : AIR 1954 SC 496, the Supreme Court had held that it is a well settled rule of construction of penal statutes that if two possible and reasonable constructions can be put upon a penal provision, the Court must lean towards that construction which exempts the subject from penalty rather than the one which imposes penalty.	PrecedentReliedUpon
It is not competent to the Court to stretch the meaning of an expression used by the Legislature in order to carry out the intention of the Legislature.	RatioOfTheDecision
Thus unless, the court is satisfied that the offence is within the plain meaning of the words used, no penal action can be taken against the person accused of such violation.	RatioOfTheDecision
In view of the above, this Court finds no infirmity with the impugned order rejecting the petitioners contention that PVR had violated its commitment.	RatioOfTheDecision
It is clarified that this Court has not examined the issue whether further developments as reported by the petitioner, that is, PVR entering into deals transactions and arrangements with other entities including MMR falls foul of the Act as the same does not arise for consideration in this petition.	RatioOfTheDecision
It would be open for the petitioner to approach the CCI in this regard.	RatioOfTheDecision
Needless to state that if any information or complaint is made to the CCI, the same would be considered in accordance with law.	RatioOfTheDecision
The petition and pending application are dismissed.	RulingByPresentCourt
No order as to costs.	RulingByPresentCourt
